The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Reporter
IT is no secret that drug and substance abuse have become serious problems in Zimbabwe, with the youth being at the centre of it all. However, it is important to note that not all of them should be painted with the same brush. The “Ama 2000” generation, as they are called, are just as concerned about their future as previous generations. Yesterday Matabeleland South Province held the provincial National Youth Day commemorations at Mawabeni Primary School, where young people from schools in the districts spoke out about the drug problem. The event was held under the theme: “Drug and Substance Abuse a Threat to Vision 2030: Every Community’s Responsibility,” to highlight the need for urgent action.  Pupils were given a platform to express their concerns to Government officials and stakeholders in the education sector. They questioned why drug peddlers roam freely on the streets, known to the communities, without being arrested. They demanded to know what happens to those who fail Ordinary Level exams since the pass rate stands at less than 30 percent nationally. The submissions made by the pupils were summarised in a speech by Junior Parliamentarian and Umzingwane legislator Babongile Sibanda. She demanded that urgent action be taken to address the drug and substance abuse problem. She highlighted how young people who abuse drugs suffer from mental illness and struggle to continue with their studies.
Sibanda also spoke about how some of the youth involved in gold panning and prostitution are doing so due to unemployment. As a result of this, they plunge into depression, which leads them to take drugs as a way of coping with their realities. “Youths are a key to the future of the nation. But it is scary to imagine how the future would be considering the rate at which the majority of them are abusing drugs. Hence more needs to be done to curb youths from abusing drugs. There is a need to revive recreational centres, community halls and theatre arts where young people can meet and express themselves,” she said.  In addition, Sibanda called on the Government to be more proactive in addressing the drug and substance abuse problem. “As youths we have not yet witnessed the functionality of the inter-ministerial committee on drugs and substance abuse in our district and province at large. We have not seen the effectiveness of some of the activities of development partners, especially the roadshow method as well,” she said. Sibanda stressed the importance of empowerment projects being spread across the districts to ensure that no one is left behind. She also questioned what becomes of learners who fail to pass the five Ordinary Level subjects, with officials stating that the Government has rolled out several vocational training centres to cater for the less academically gifted. Matabeleland South Provincial Affairs and Devolution Minister Abednego Ncube stated that, while yesteryear’s youth took up arms to deliberate the country, young people should use their skills to develop the nation, as education has been spread to all corners of the country. “Authorities within learning institutions must ensure that systems are in place to mitigate against peddling of drugs. Unruly behaviour related to drug and substance use must be dealt with decisively within our education systems. Overall, responsive and holistic strategies must be rolled out across sectors and societal levels in both public and private institutions,” said Minister Ncube. –@nqotshili