The Chronicle Zechariah 4:6-10 For everything, there is a time and a season. That includes good and/or bad but we tend to be choosy, good things all the time. Nothing wrong with wanting the good times but do not ignore or try to avoid the other not-so-nice times. Mostly because in those fiery times God forges His warriors in faith, trust, and hope, among other things. There are times when we have to be tested as well like the not-so-popular test of small beginnings. Zechariah 4:10 Do not despise …, how about you open your Bible today, it’s not for Sundays only. The test of small things comes to prove our faithfulness and potential to handle greater things. Before that promotion and abundance, God will test us with small things. To whom much is given much is required, Luke 12:48. We are held responsible for what we have. No promotion comes without God testing us with small things. Before God can make you tithe millions, He will test you with $10. How many of us woke up managers, directors, supervisors, chief executives, and all those big posts? You would need one more dollar to make $999 999 a million so do not doubt the power and influence of small things. You will never go past a test that you failed, first pass the test of small beginnings. Luke 16:10 He will release small things to test your faithfulness before elevating you to abundance. In 2003 it was just me, my wife, and 1 person the whole year but I preached as if it was to 5 000 people. I am challenging you today to pass the level where you are because if you fail it, God cannot give you to the next level. Even in your spiritual life, there are no short cuts, you will be tested and God will begin to increase you in every way. It is in those small and despised levels that you practice and grow to prepare for what is to come and create a solid foundation. During the moments of a test, you have to encourage yourself in the Lord. Be faithful with the small things that you have. The reason why you are not moving to the next level is that you are failing that level Amen! Excerpt from: Tuesday Bible Study, dated 30 June 2020, Titled The Seasons of Testing.