The Chronicle Brandon Moyo, Sports Reporter In a world dominated by football, basketball, and tennis, it’s refreshing to see a sport that has been around for centuries making a comeback. Badminton, one of the oldest sports in mankind’s history, has been forgotten in the city and country’s sporting arena for too long. But with the formation of the first-ever Badminton Association of Zimbabwe (BAZ) in 2008, the game is finally making its way back to the top where it belongs.  History tells us that badminton originated in British-India, and it was named after the country estate of the dukes of Beaufort in Gloucestershire, England, where it was made popular. The sport is derived directly from “Poona,” an Indian game played by British army officers stationed in India in the 1860s. The first unofficial all-England badminton championships for men were held in 1899, and the first badminton tournament for women was arranged the following year. Despite being one of the oldest sporting codes in history, badminton is often overlooked in favour of more popular sports. However, it is the second most popular sport in the world after football. And for good reason: it’s a sport that can be played by anyone, regardless of age or physical ability. Plus, playing badminton has been shown to increase life expectancy by six years! Thanks to the Bulawayo Badminton Association (BBA) and its president, Tatenda Mamina, the sport is making a comeback in Zimbabwe. Umpiring and coaching workshops have been taking place since January, with the latest arbitrating course ending today. The goal is to get badminton played in educational facilities and to reach as many people as possible.
“Corporates and schools are taking it with passion and interest. Some used to mistake it with squash and other institutions are realising that they have equipment in their stores but did not know they are for badminton,” said Mamina. But it’s not just about popularity. Playing badminton has numerous health benefits, and it can be played by anyone, regardless of age or physical ability.
“The shuttlecock is very light, the racket as well and the court is very small,” Mamina said. “ This sport can be played by someone with a disability, it can even be played by a person who is 90 years old or even someone with a heart disease because you can play it at your own pace.” Over 90 students have been trained at King George and Jairos Jiri schools, and over 40 coaches were trained in the Southern region of the country. A special coaching workshop for all universities and colleges is on the line at a date yet to be announced. The hope is that the sport will continue to grow and gain popularity throughout the region.
“Schools like Jairos Jiri, King George and Henry Low Primary have started trainings, utilising the equipment availed by BBA for the growth of the sport in the region. It is our wish that the corporate world supports the growth of the sport by availing community grounds and support equipment procurement as equipment is available locally,” said Mamina. In the coming months, the city is set to host numerous badminton-related activities, including the Shuttle-Time badminton initiative, which is designed to provide children with a positive image of badminton through many opportunities to have fun, engage with others, and experience success. Zimbabwe is one of the 194 Badminton World Federation (BWF) members, and it’s clear that the sport has a bright future in the region. With the help of the BBA and other organizations, badminton is making a comeback, and it’s sure to be a thrilling and entertaining sport to watch for years.
@brandon_malvin