The Chronicle Flora Fadzai Sibanda, Chronicle Reporter ENVIRONMENT, Climate, Tourism, and Hospitality Industry Minister, Nqobizitha Mangaliso Ndlovu, on Friday joined the Bulawayo City Council and its stakeholders in the clean-up campaign, which he said was worthwhile exercise in promoting a clean environment. Minister Ndlovu participated in the clean-up exercise along 11th Avenue where he joined the sweepers and collected refuse while putting on protective clothing. He commended the local authority and its stakeholders for taking bold steps to keep Bulawayo clean saying more needs to be done to curb refuse dumping and pollutions of all forms. “What do tourists say about a city that is dirty? That is why it should trouble all of us that it is dirty. We want to see who will throw away the first paper after this campaign,” said Minister Ndlovu. “As the Government, we will make sure that going forward keeping the city clean is made a priority so that we don’t go back to the dirty city that we are now faced with.”  Council in partnership with EMA and other stakeholders targeted 43 waste hotspots in the city that were now a looming disaster for people’s health. The campaign began on Wednesday and ended on Friday. Bulawayo town clerk Mr Christopher Dube said the aim of the clean-up campaign was to reduce the risk of waste-related disease outbreaks. Some of the targeted spots include corner Lobengula Street and Second Avenue, Third Avenue between Joshua Mqabuko and Jason Moyo Street, corner George Silundika and Third Avenue, Fourth Avenue between Fife Street and George Silundika and Fifth Avenue between Robert Mugabe Way and Josiah Tongogara Street. Residents who participated in the campaign commended the campaign and expressed excitement over Minister Ndlovu’s participation. Mr Jethro Ncube said council should also ensure that more public toilets are built in the city centre as lack of such facilities forces people to relieve themselves in open spaces and sanitary lanes. Environmental Management Agency director of environmental protection, Mr Christopher Mushava, urged stakeholders to play their part to ensure a clean environment including embracing recycling. – @flora_sibanda