The Chronicle Flora Fadzai Sibanda, Chronicle Reporter A United Bulawayo Hospitals (UBH) trained nurse has opened a nurse aide training school in Bulawayo after getting a permit from the Government and has since applied for permission to start a fully fledged nursing school. Ms Rutendo Zvidza is now based in Namibia having worked at MaterDei Hospital for a year after completing her studies at UBH in 2013. The nurse already owns two nursing schools in Namibia and she hopes to open one in Bulawayo one day if her application is approved. In the meantime, she decided on a nurse aide training school as the application process was easier. Born and raised in Nkulumane suburb, she said coming from a family of nurses inspired her to join the profession as she loved how her mother would wake up every day to help patients at MaterDei Hospital. Her sisters and aunts are also nurses. Ms Zvidza said while working at MaterDei Hospital, she applied for work in Namibia and in 2014 she got clearance to move to the Sadc country to work at a hospital in Windhoek.  The nurse said working at a hospital where there were student nurses that she was also training fuelled her desire to have her own school where she would teach learners on her own. “It started as something that was just a dream which I was not even sure would be approved. However, I took a leap of faith and drafted a curriculum for my school that I wanted. I already had money that was stashed on the side from my funds that I had gotten from the Namibian government for being a nurse in their country. In 2019 my curriculum was approved and I set up my first school in Windhoek, Namibia’s capital city,” she said. Ms Zvidza said at her first school she remembers teaching seven students who had enrolled in a small classroom. She said she was, however, patient and in the next enrolment, her learners increased. “After two years it now has a prestigious story and was recommended by many and I was able to open another one in the Second Capital city of Namibia Rundu,” said the nurse. She said students at her Namibian Nursing schools are enrolled for diplomas in nursing and midwifery. When she came home to Bulawayo in December last year, the Zimbabwean-born nurse said she decided it was time to give back to the city that groomed her. She said it took her three weeks to register her nurse aid training school that is located in Suburbs which she hopes will soon grow to offer diplomas in midwifery and nursing. “I spent over 150 00 rands in setting up my new school in Bulawayo. I have already applied for a license to enroll learners who might want to get diplomas in midwifery and nursing. We are already enrolling learners as the first intake will start in March. “This is all part of giving back to the community and helping even the people from home to get trained nurses who will help the already available health workers,” she said. The school will have four classes, two in the morning and the other in the afternoon. Ms Zvidza said the journey has not been easy as establishing three schools takes a lot of work and determination. “Being a mother and a school owner is really hard. However, l am grateful l have been able to soldier on. My family especially my mother and sister have always been my support system and cheer me on whenever l start losing the enthusiasm,” she said. – @flora_sibanda