The Chronicle 1 Peter 4:10 Each of you should use whatever gift you have received to serve others, as faithful stewards of God’s grace in its various forms. NIV FIRST impressions always make lasting impressions. The customer must fall in, move with you as a sales person, then they will automatically fall in love with what you have to offer. Solid relationships with your customers always ensure success in your business. Such relationships are based on your faithfulness and loyalty to your customers. With the vast range of similar products and services, relations are what propels most business owners to their targeted goals. As a salesperson, bear in mind that this relationship begins with you, not the customer. The customer is always looking for a service that they can depend on, where they know that their need is priority. Such relationships are more important to the customer, and relevant even before they buy your product. Also it continues even after the sale, and often lasts as long as the customer uses the product or service.  Always value the relationship more than the service or product. Because you are competing with other companies that will be offering the same services or products as yours as I mentioned before, strive to make the customer at ease and comfortable with you so that they enter into a business relationship with you. Never leave out the fact that your company prides itself in the importance of building long lasting relationships with their customers in your conversations. Tell your customers that you seek a long-term relationship and that is your main aim. Maintain a smooth and strong relationship with your clients, making sure that they are cared for. Be attentive and sensitive, and assure them that they can depend on you for fast follow -ups to their complaints and requests. Always show your customers how much you appreciate them. The law of perspective 151 Develop a process for relationship management. Make sure that your relationship is constant. Invest part of your time in cultivating the relationship that you have with your current customers who have already bought from you. Beware of relationship entropy, that is taking customers for granted because that is detrimental to every business relationship.