The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Matabeleland South Bureau Chief ZANU-PF affiliates in Matabeleland South have reaffirmed their support for President Mnangagwa as the party’s sole Presidential candidate in this year’s harmonised elections. A total of 21 affiliate groups in the province met the party’s provincial leadership at Gwanda District Club on Tuesday. They include the Economic Empowerment Group, Protocol for ED, Pastors for ED, Civil Servants for ED, Young Women for ED, Single Ladies for ED, ZICOSU, National Youth Service for ED, Varakashi for ED, Cross Borders for ED, Ziliwaco Trust, Teachers for ED, Vendors for ED, Farmers for ED, Zimbabwe Empowerment Trust, Bulembu, VaPostori for ED, Visionary Cadres Association of Zimbabwe, Defenders for ED, Children of War Veterans Association and Councillors for ED. Speaking during the meeting, representatives of the various affiliate groups, said they have engaged in a mobilisation drive targeting 5 million votes for the party and the President. Young Women for ED Matabeleland South provincial chairperson, Cde Fortunate Gundu said they are active in all seven districts of the province. She said they have managed to mobilise about 5 000 women. Cde Gundu said during their mobilisation process they are also encouraging women to register to vote. “Over 90 percent of these women that we have mobilised are registered voters. We are conscientising women on the works that have been delivered by our Government under the leadership of President Mnangagwa,” she said. “Our President is a leader that delivers and as Young Women for ED we go around communities bringing development. We have a number of livelihood projects underway in the province which are benefiting women.”  The group has also started equipping children with various livelihood skills such as dressmaking. Varakashi for ED provincial chairperson, Cde Trust Ruvengo said social media is a powerful mobilisation tool, which they are using to defend the revolutionary party and garner support for President Mnangagwa. Protocol for ED leader Cde Ngonidzashe Manda said their target is to recruit new members into the party structures as well as bring back those that had strayed. “As the Protocol for ED we are solely behind President Mnangagwa in the coming elections. Recruitment is key in vote mobilisation and one of our main activities is recruiting new members into the party. We have embarked on a programme where we are moving around rural areas donating to the people and telling them about the party,” he said. Single Ladies for ED Matabeleland South chairperson, Cde Ronica Maruvire said they intend to capitalise on their numbers to mobilise as many single ladies as possible to rally behind President Mnangagwa. She said despite their group being two weeks old, they had managed to recruit over 300 members in Beitbridge. Cde Maruvire said they have started their mass recruitment across all districts of the province. Civil Servants Trust for ED provincial chairperson, Cde Respect Muleya said they launched their Matabeleland South chapter in September last year with only 300 members and the number has increased to 3 000. He said they are encouraging all civil servants from various departments to come on board and support the Government under the visionary leadership of President Mnangagwa. Speaking during the meeting, Zanu-PF Politburo member, Cde Abedinico Ncube urged the affiliate groups to be united and work in unison with the party leadership. He commended the groups for their extensive mobilisation work. Zanu-PF Matabeleland South provincial chairperson Cde Nqobizitha Mangaliso Ndlovu urged the affiliates to mobilise for the President to ensure a landslide victory in the elections. “This is everyone’s party and it’s the revolutionary party. This party has three owners comprising the founding fathers who fought to liberate our country. It also belongs to both the present and future generations,” said Cde Ndlovu. “As the present generation we have a role to build a stronger party for the generation to come. In order to do this, each one of us has a role to explain the ideology and history of the party.” Cde Ndlovu urged party affiliates to make use of the Herbert Chitepo School of Ideology for them to appreciate and have a better understanding of Zanu-PF’s founding values and history. “This will enable us to stand and defend the party in the face of adversities. Going forward, the party’s provincial leadership will hold monthly strategic meetings with the affiliates for updates on their programmes ahead of the 2023 elections,” he said. Cde Ndlovu urged affiliate member groups to be visible in groups and structures to enable a resounding victory for President Mnangagwa and Zanu-PF. He said the party will produce a consolidated report on the development works of President Mnangagwa in each district, constituency, and ward in the province. Cde Ndlovu implored the affiliates to serve as good ambassadors of President Mnangagwa and the ruling party. He also urged them to be aligned towards economic development. – @DubeMatutu