The Chronicle Peter Matika I decided to get myself a bottle and a few cordials last week in an effort to make my own cocktail away from the hustle and bustle of town. And guess what? It actually came out in the desired manner. I made a mojito. I was with friends and wanted to have a taste of something slightly different from the usual gin and tonic or whisky on ice. And of course, the clumsy beer. Anyway, the mojito is quite a popular drink, but it takes a careful hand to make one and you have all the required ingredients. It’s quite an easy recipe that anyone can try and it is actually fun with friends. It doesn’t take much, but all you have to do is be specific on the measurements unless you are planning on getting super intoxicated as a collective. The mojito is the best summer drink. It really doesn’t need many ingredients. All it takes is white rum, lime juice or squeezed lemons, mint, and soda water. This is a sure instant crowd-pleaser. Don’t forget the ice to ensure that it remains chilled, the serving is entirely up to you. I had been reading about and sampling cocktails lately and decided I would give it a try and voila I made one.  So, I also discovered that this particular mojito is the traditional one and there are various and exciting flavours. There’s the Strawberry mojito and according to the recipe book I read online, this is how it’s made: Squish some bright red strawberries and muddle them into a glass with ice. The secret, well not so secret ingredient is adding a pinch of black pepper. It brings out the berries’ natural sweetness and adds a subtle spice. This super-simple drink is a firm summer favourite, perfect for barbecue season or a relaxed night with friends. Then comes the Blueberry mojito: It requires just a handful of ingredients to turn a punnet of blueberries and a bottle of rum into a jarful of this mouth-watering party drink. Switching traditional limes for wedges of lemons balances out the sweetness of the fruit and adds a little extra zing to each sip. The third one I read and so want to try out is the Ginger and  lemon grass mojito: Apparently, this flavour was discovered in Vietnam. All you need is a few mint leaves to add a light, minty flavour, with grassy notes of anise or licorice (I will be visiting the vegetable market soon). A splash of delicate ginger and lemon grass cordial elevates this simple serving to something extra special. The recipe goes well with some Chinese food apparently. The fourth mojito is perhaps for those with a sweet tooth, mango and pineapple mojito. If you want to give your tastebuds a dose of tropical flavours then this is the best mojito. For this, you have to cut out chunks of ripe mango, pineapple, wedges of lime/lemon, and sugar then mix them together. Mix this with rum, sparkling water, and a glug of pineapple juice for an extra taste of the exotic. Last but not least is the Bergamot mojito, I have no idea how to pronounce that! This is outwardly the elevated version of the original tipple and is said to be the best drink to impress friends. It has a plush perfumed zest and juice is combined with sugar syrup for a smooth, citrusy mixture designed for sipping at leisure. A make-ahead granita keeps your drink chilled and full of texture. If you have an establishment and think your drink has what it takes to be profiled, WhatsApp me on 0772337433. REMEMBER alcohol is not for sale to persons under the age of 18 and let’s not forget to drink responsibly.