The Chronicle Millicent Dube, Showbiz Reporter The just-ended Intwasa Arts Festival koBulawayo kept those who attended well entertained with people also being educated through the various workshops and informative plays that were staged. The festival had something for everyone with youths being kept busy. Two consecutive events, Women, Wine and Words and the Vagina Monologues were hosted in support of womanhood and gave acknowledgment to their power. Women Wine and Words – everything about this event was authentic, rare and raw, but ready to be harvested. The performers came ready for some real fun and they delivered just that. The National Art Gallery of Zimbabwe in Bulawayo was lit with an energetic audience and people were made to feel more than comfortable. The aura gave one a sense of belonging and the crowd was very much interactive. The Women, Wine and Words was staged last week Thursday, on the same night as the Zandezi play, which was also a success. The first to light up the stage was Michelle, a poet, who was very calm, and reserved but spoke words that cut deeper than a knife. She delivered an amazing piece that drew the attention of an absent father. The ladies kept it raw, African and cultured with Tari NeGitare’s vocals complementing the set. She churned out most of her hit songs with so much ease and her face showed so much adoration for her performance. Her hit song Ndisiye Ndakadaro had the crowd on their feet. Next on stage was Thandy Dhlana. Dripped in a turquoise evening gown, the songstress nailed her performance. She unintentionally hypnotised every individual present living a lasting impression with the performance of Inganekwane. Closing off the Women, Wine and Words experience was Nkwali who possessed so much energy on stage. Her dance skills were top-notch. Nkwali’s vocal range is unmatched and she can go all night long without facing any difficulties, but still sound soothing to the ears. To close it off, she performed Nyawo Lwami which the audience loved and danced to. Generally, the Women, Wine and Words had a massive line-up of respectable artistes from different backgrounds. They all had different testimonies to their rise to fame. The event gave women a safe space to engage and commend the strength of being a woman.