The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Chronicle Reporter GOVERNMENT has with immediate effect scrapped coverage of adult dependents on PSMAS to lessen the financial burden on the medical aid scheme while ensuring the viability of the medical cover. Anyone wishing to cover an adult dependent will pay market rates for medical aid services and will not get a Government subsidy for the grown-up beneficiary. In a statement, the Public Service Commission secretary Dr Tsitsi Choruma said all members of the Public Service who wish to add other beneficiaries to their plans will need to pay PSMAS-defined market rates for them. “The Public Service Commission has, in the past few years, noted with concern that Civil Servants have been facing challenges in accessing medical services. The challenges relating to Civil Servants accessing medical aid are multi-faceted and these do not exclude abuse and fraud around access,” she said.  “An unprecedented increase in the number of adult beneficiaries added by some members of the Public Service medical scheme has been observed. This is due to the highly subsidised levels of subscriptions obtaining. These extra adult dependents (18 years and above) who are accessing services at a very low cost have grossly reduced the viability, affordability and sustainability of PSMAS medical aid. The Public Service Commission is determined to ensure the sustainable provision of medical care for Civil Servants and wishes to announce a new measure relating to adult dependents. It must be noted that the new measure is with immediate effect.” Dr Choruma said the standard medical aid package for Public Service workers under PSMAS covers a member, spouse and eligible three children. The Public Service Commission meets 80% while the employee pays 20% balance of the medical cover obligations. She said in view of the aspirations to have all Public Servants accessing medical coverage through PSMAS, the Government has made a decision that adult dependents shall not be subsidised by the subscriptions made by the Government for its public workers’ core beneficiaries. Dr Choruma said as such, all members of the Public Service who wish to add other beneficiaries to their plans would need to pay PSMAS-defined market rates for them. The addition of adult dependents onto one’s plan will require that a member notifies PSMAS directly and ensures that they make the necessary arrangements for the proposed additions. She said Government remains committed to guaranteeing that public servants have access to good health and medical care as health insurance is recognised as one of several non-monetary benefits the Public Service Commission extends to Government workers to ensure that the workforce is healthy and has the ability to physically and mentally apply itself at the workplace. “It must be noted that the arrangements to finance extra dependents, is the responsibility of the member and this will be done by directly signing up with PSMAS. The Public Service Commission will only deduct subscriptions through SSB upon receipt of a clear instruction signed off by the member. However, members are also free to pay directly to PSMAS,” she said. “The Public Service Commission hopes that members will understand the concerns stated above, but more importantly, also note that this decision will enable the availability of resources to largely benefit the members of the Public Service. This change is meant to lessen the financial burden on the Government and PSMAS while ensuring the viability of the medical cover. This enhances value for the members and ensures the sustainability of the provision of services offered by PSMAS to its clients.”