The Chronicle IF you always do more than you are being paid for, you will always be paid more than what you are getting right now.
Matthew 5:40-42 If anyone wants to sue you and take away your tunic, let him have your cloak also. And whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him two. Give to him who asks you, and from him who wants to borrow from you do not turn away. (NKJV)
If you desire to be a multimillionaire be prepared to work harder than others, be ready to go the extra mile. Multimillionaires are extra milers; they do not operate in one dimension. Laziness is not applicable to multimillionaires. To be successful you must look for opportunities to go beyond the requirements of your job or ministry. Look for opportunities to exceed expectations, the only way to reap more is to sow more.
I pastor a mega church, I write books, train departments, and hold crusades and seminars because I do not want to be a one miler. The world of business magnates is not one of slothful individuals, it is a domain of diligent, industrious people. Flippancy and being lackadaisical will not cut it in today’s corporate world.  You must be willing to give away your piece of bread (fast) and your sleep (never sleep more than you need to), so that you may enter certain realms of being considerably above average. If you are not willing to work extra hours forget about prominence.
Begin a little earlier at your workplace and stay a little later than others. Take additional responsibilities, identify areas where you can go an extra mile. There was a man who inquired as to why he was not being promoted at his workplace, I told him that he was a one-mile worker and that he needed to identify areas where his boss was tired (slacking or needed assistance) and carry that cross for him. He went and discovered that his boss was not eager to deal with a certain portfolio in Esigodini. He then worked on this portfolio, and began to rake in a lot of money and so he was promoted and of course his salary increased. Look for ways to make your bosses’ life easier and they will, in turn reciprocate this.
What are you offering that other people are not?
God Bless.
eaglelifeassembly@yahoo.com