The Chronicle Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter VETERAN football administrator Dennis “Dadegulu” Tshuma (54) is suspected to have died in his sleep at his homestead in Kasibo Village, Hwange District of Matabeleland North on Tuesday. Headman Chadamoyo Prosper Neshavi said he received the news of Tshuma’s passing with shock. “We suspect he died in his sleep. He was fine late on Tuesday. I talked to him and he went to his home to sleep and he was just fine. His car is down. He was with the herd boy at his homestead but he sleeps at a distance. “His wife was away. There was a man who was supposed to pick him up in the morning but he got no response as he had already left us. This is a big loss not only for the community but the country,” said Neshavi. Tshuma’s post mortem will be carried out in Bulawayo to ascertain his exact cause of death. He was one of the longest serving Zimbabwe Football Association councilors who assumed his role as far back as 2003. Tshuma was, at the time of his death, the Zifa Matabeleland North chairperson as well as a village head. He has also been with the national referees committee as a co-coordinator.  Zifa Southern Region chairman Andrew Tapela offered his condolence message. “It’s quite devastating when it’s someone you talked to a day before his death. We would liaise and work with him closely. If l look back l think in the Zifa congress he is perhaps the oldest unless they are some that l don’t know, meaning we have lost his wisdom and experience. “He was a humble and very clear, brave, trustworthy person. If you agree on something he would stick to it. He was reliable and dependable,” said Tapela. Zifa have also expressed following Tshuma’s death. “The Zimbabwe Football Association (ZIFA) has learnt with great sadness about the passing of the ZIFA Matabeleland North Provincial Chairperson, Dennis Tshuma. “Our heartfelt condolences go to the Tshuma family, friends and the whole football fraternity at large. “Thoughts and prayers are with the family of the departed during this difficult time. May his Soul Rest in Eternal Peace,’’ read a statement from Zifa. — @innocentskizoe