The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Matabeleland South Bureau Chief FARMERS in Matabeleland South Province are set to receive modules offering solutions to challenges that affect production such as diseases and access to markets. The literature, which was crafted by the Edward Ndlovu Memorial Trust in partnership with Matobo Research Centre, contains strategies that farmers can adopt to boost productivity in goat, horticulture, fodder, poultry and forage production. The modules are available in soft copy and will be printed and distributed throughout the province with farmers in Gwanda District set to benefit first. The modules contain information on various diseases affecting farmers in the province including solutions to their challenges. They also contain strategies that farmers can adopt to maximise production and improve sales. In an interview yesterday, Edward Ndlovu Memorial Trust programmes officer, Mr Mike Moyo said the modules will be first distributed to study circle groups in Gwanda before they are given to agricultural extension officers for use in educating other farmers. He said a research was conducted to identify challenges affecting farmers in their production chain. The modules were then tailor-made to address those  challenges.  “We are working on the production of modules, which are specific to the farming activities being practised in Matabeleland South. For example, we have produced a module on the production of tomatoes, potatoes, vegetables and onions, including goat production,” said Mr Moyo. “The module also contains information on fodder production, poultry production and forage manual. These modules are now available on soft copy and we will be printing and distributing them soon.” The goat production module tackles issues such as breed selection which helps farmers to properly select their breeds, and how to manage the female goats. “It also tackles kid management which seeks to reduce kid mortality, goat dosing and dipping, goat housing, goat nutrition, goat health and goat marketing. The module will help the farmers to improve their production,” said Mr Moyo. He said the modules will be published in English with agricultural extension officers unpacking them to the farmers. Mr Moyo said they will also help farmers to identify diseases that affect their crops and livestock. He said in the past they have been distributing general literature on various farming practices to communities. Mr Moyo said the modules with help farmers to be able to solve some of their challenges without necessarily depending on experts. “We noticed that there are some diseases that affect production. We first conducted a problem analysis to find out some of the diseases which affect the farmers,” he said. “The modules explain these diseases in detail and how they can be handled including the pesticides which farmers can use. This will go a long way in assisting farmers to drop the dependency syndrome.” – @DubeMatutu