The Chronicle Patrick Chitumba, Midlands Bureau Chief SCORES of villagers in both Gokwe North and South districts in the Midlands Province were displaced after their homes were destroyed by floods, which have been caused by heavy rains. Most parts of the country have been receiving heavy downpours, which are expected to continue until Sunday. The heavy rains accompanied by strong winds continue to cause panic among villagers following the destruction of over 100 huts including two schools in several parts of Gokwe North and South districts. The heavy rains have left hundreds of villagers with no shelter and food. Part of the Gokwe–Chitekete road was also damaged by the floods resulting in the two areas being inaccessible. Communities in the Nenyunka and Chireya areas are unable to access Gokwe town. At Mutimuri Primary and Secondary Schools under Chief Chireya in Ward 9, classroom blocks were damaged resulting in learning materials and furniture worth thousands of dollars being destroyed.  Gokwe North District Development Coordinator, Mr Martin Musakanda said the Air Force of Zimbabwe had been alerted to assist in uplfiting marooned people to safe areas. “There is severe flooding in Gokwe North, especially in Mutimuri Village. The whole area is inaccessible by road and we have alerted the Air Force of Zimbabwe,” he said. Mr Musakanda said many families have been affected and are in need of assistance. “We are yet to establish the affected number because the place is inaccessible,” he said. Mr Musakanda said last year they relocated 129 families. He said the district has been receiving incessant rains since last week resulting in flooding in Mutimuri under Chireya area. He said Ume River burst its banks resulting in the flooding of surrounding areas. “Heavy downpours caused flooding at the local primary and secondary school and 10 teachers were left stranded after their houses were damaged. We could not assess damage in the surrounding villages due to the flooding caused by Ume River,” said Mr Musakanda. At Mutimuri Primary School, several desks, chairs and roofing sheets were damaged while some properties including mattresses, blankets, cellphones, exercise books, textbooks and groceries were washed away. “The teachers and the pupils whose homes were destroyed have no shelter and food,” said Mr Musakanda. He said at Mutimuri Secondary School, a three-roomed teachers’ house had its roof blown off. “The main challenge right now is accommodation and food for the teachers and affected families. We need assistance in the form of tents, temporary toilets, food, clothes and blankets for affected teachers and communities,” said Musakanda. He said there is also need to relocate the schools to the new site as well as families from Mutimuri Village. Gokwe-Chireya MP Cde Torerayi Moyo said the worst affected areas in the constituency include Wards 4, 9, and 33. “Ward 9 is the most hit with several homes and schools affected,” he said. Gokwe-Kabuyuni MP Cde Spencer Tshuma said the Gokwe – Chitekete road at the 100km peg has been damaged resulting in people failing to access the two areas. “Communities in the Nenyunka area are unable to access important services in Gokwe Centre town due to the damaged road,” he said. Cde Tshuma said even dams are also under threat due to flooding in the area. “In Ward 28, crops along the Sesame River were destroyed while in Ward 5, several huts were destroyed,” he said. Permanent Secretary for Midlands Provincial Affairs and Devolution Mr Abiot Maronge said the Government is aware of the situation. He said the Government is working on mitigating the effects of the flooding. Local Government and Public Works Minister July Moyo recently said the Government has capacitated the Air force of Zimbabwe with fuel worth US$800 000 as part of preparations to rescue Zimbabweans who might be affected by floods.