The Chronicle Angela Sibanda, Showbiz Correspondent Pageant founder and mental health activist Sipho Mazibuko continues to uplift up-and-coming models as she is set to host yet another edition of Miss Rural Zimbabwe. Through the Strides Models Zimbabwe and Mental Voices Trust organisations that are behind the pageant, posters have been issued to invite applicants for this year’s edition. The pageant is strictly for young people between 18-25 who have a strong rural background and share a wide range of rural life experiences. The pageant is hosted across the country in all rural districts. According to Mazibuko, all aspiring candidates from Matabeleland North and South rural areas excluding those from growth points, are being invited to apply before the end of this month. In the past, the pageant has also been used to promote government-related projects and this year’s edition is aiming at encouraging voter registration and education among young people as well as promoting mental health awareness. “The event will be free provided the attendants produce a Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (ZEC) registration certificate and a Zanu PF membership card. We will also be having ZEC officials on the ground assisting with registration and providing voter education,” she said. The finale which is in partnership with Ingutsheni Mental Hospital through the Mental Voices Trust will feature up-and-coming artists who will perform alongside already-established artists. “We’re looking forward to having a lineup of South African artists and plans are underway to invite them to be part of this year’s edition,” said Mazibuko. Since its establishment, Miss Rural has equipped many young people with entrepreneurial skills through the organisation’s partnership with different sponsors. In 2021, the government commended the pageant for its promotion of the tourism sector and the representation of all Zimbabwean rural provinces in the beauty competition. It is registered with the National Arts Council under Sipho Mazibuko, a veteran model instructor who is a bipolar survivor, hence the motivation to promote mental health awareness. Meanwhile, Strides Models Zimbabwe is also calling for models from urban provinces to apply for Miss and Mr Urban Zimbabwe, a pageant that will also be held this year.