The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter FOR the past 10 years, Victoria Falls residents have mobilised resources to help rebuild close to 10 houses that were destroyed by fire in the city, all in the spirit of humanity. Fire accidents are prevalent across the country with many families left homeless. For residents in the country’s prime tourism city, losing a property to fire becomes temporary setback as residents quickly come together and pool resources to rebuild the structures. The initiative reflects community solidarity where residents are “their brother’s keeper.” Last week, a house in Mkhosana suburb belonging to Nomagugu Sithole was razed by a fire suspected to have emanated from a gas tank.  Sithole said household property including a bed, fridge, stove, TV and several other items were completely burnt. Dumisani Masuku of Impact Hardware and General Supplies chairs the “Help Sithole Committee” and residents are contributing US$5 per household while businesses pay US$20 each. Hwange West MP, Mr Godfrey Dube had donated 30 bags of cement. Members of the Catholic Church’s St Josephine Bakhita Parish are also separately mobilising resources. The parish priest, Reverend Father Simelinkosi Masango visited the house and appealed to church members to contribute “in the spirit of synodality and humanity.” In October last year, another house was burnt in Mfelandawonye suburb while early last year Masauso Sakala, a Victoria Falls safari operator, and his family of nine lost all property when a fire razed their house. The houses were rebuilt by residents. The victims are not allowed to receive or handle any donated items. The committee receives the donation and then does the allocations. In some instances where victims are tenants, the committee decides on the kind of help to be rendered to both the tenant and to the owner of the property. When the Sakala family’s seven-roomed house was burnt down, the family had almost given up hope until a “Help Sakala Fundraising Committee” was formed. Tragedy befell the family when two solar batteries burst resulting in fire that burnt everything. The committee secured a temporary house for the family and took care of them while the house was being rebuilt. Two minor girls who were in the house escaped unhurt and neighbours helped alert the fire fighters who managed to put out the fire, which had already destroyed everything. The entire house was destroyed and the committee, with advice from the city’s housing inspector recommended that it be demolished. Sakala who owns Ultimate Fishing Safaris, his wife Sitshengisiwe and their three daughters are forever grateful to the Victoria Falls community for the gesture. “The community played a big role in restoring our dignity after we lost our house. They bought everything and rebuilt the walls and provided us with food. They played a critical role,” said Sakala. He said he learnt that “umuntu ngumuntu ngabantu.” In all the fire incidents, Victoria Falls residents volunteered to provide labour. Irvine Mpofu who is renting a house that was burnt down in October last year said in no time they had returned to the house after the community rebuilt it. “People who stayed in the room where the fire started said they didn’t know how it started. All property, roof, doors and other items were destroyed while the walls were also damaged,” he said. “Residents chipped in and repaired the roof and plastered the walls.” Councillor for Victoria Falls City Council’s Ward 11, Edmore Zhou said residents and well-wishers have rebuilt eight houses that were gutted by fire in the last 10 years. He said this had become a norm and whenever there is a fire incident, a special steering committee is set up to mobilise resources. Residents also donate labour, building material, foodstuffs, clothes and household property. “What we usually do in Ward 11 is that as soon as tragedy strikes we approach the council and request a hailer which we use to mobilise residents,” said Clr Zhou. “I am happy that we have developed a culture of helping those in need. This has even extended to those who need medical help.”— @ncubeleon