The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS Clubhouse patrons are ecstatic over renovations that Bosso are undertaking to give the facility a new look which they hope will draw more business. The Clubhouse is one of the revenue generation streams outside football for Highlanders, with funds raised from the facility used for their day-to-day operations. Revamping the Clubhouse, which was long overdue, started on Tuesday with removal of furniture, liquor stock and delivery of material to be used during renovations which includes bricks and sand. Patrons and members who frequent the Clubhouse Bar said renovations to the facility whose lease was secured in 1987 by the late Ndumiso Gumede executive are long overdue. They expressed hope that the facelift will make Highlanders able to compete with other sports clubs within the city. Below are some of the views from Bosso members as well as Clubhouse patrons:  Lindani Khabazela: From my point of view, it’s a good development to uplift the Clubhouse so that it can compete with other leisure centres. As patrons, we need ice cold beers and a smart place with a cool environment. Kholiwe Ncube: Revamping the Clubhouse is a good initiative which I hope will benefit the club to increase its revenue. If you look at past general meetings reports, there were concerns about the state of the Clubhouse and if it gets a fresh look, it is likely to attract lots of people which might translate to more sales and revenue. Zibusiso Moyo: It’s long overdue. This is great. Members have been yearning for this since kudala. We can’t wait to see how the place will look after renovations. Ayisoze ibulawe! Maestro Mbuzeni Mbambo: Okwenzakalayo kuBosso Clubhouse kuhle kakhulu. Sibatshayela ihlombe abaphathi beqembu, executive, board, benefactors and fans. Abantu sebezahamba ngobunengi besiyazikholisela nje emzini weBosso, iqembu abalithandayo. Bayethe Mkwebu: It’s a good move and hopefully they will change the floor tiles as they are also old and broken. Dumisani Gumpo: Great initiative. Highlanders supporters and regular patrons have always dreamt about that. One grouping, Arsenal Bosso Chapter, had mooted the idea when they donated the gate and even offered to renovate Hlabangana Lounge. Precious Mathema: I think it’s a good move because the place was in a sorry state. You couldn’t invite visitors to go and chill at the Clubhouse because of the stench coming from the toilets. The roof was also leaking. Hopefully, all the issues will be addressed and the place will be similar to other leisure centres or even more appealing. Philani Mbedzi: This is a great achievement for the club because as supporters we do really want to support our club but some of the facilities are far ahead in terms of standard and we end up spending our money at other pubs and recreational places around the city. So, I think these renovations might upgrade our Clubhouse hence attract more patrons. Shamiso Ncube: While the renovations are good, we feel betrayed because we should have been notified earlier so that we find alternative leisure places as we always frequent the Clubhouse. — @ZililoR