The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS Football Club’s board of directors have instructed the Johnfat Sibanda led executive committee to relieve assistant coach Joel Luphahla of his duties because he does not possess the requisite Caf A coaching badge after requests for an exemption last season were turned down by Zifa. The former Bosso and national team tear-away winger joined the then Mandla “Lulu” Mpofu led technical team in March last year and survived the coaching staff changes two months later when Mpofu, assistant coach Bekithemba Ndlovu as well as goalkeepers’ coach Julius Ndlovu were relieved of their duties with Amahlolanyama later appointing Portuguese national Baltemar Jose De Oliveira Brito who came with his assistant-cum interpreter Antonio Torres. Torres is a holder of Uefa B coaching licence and like Luphahla, was not allowed to sit on the bench during official matches in the 2021/22 season. In a leaked WhatsApp message from a member of the executive, which was gleaned by this reporter, the board is said to have instructed the executive to abide by the regulations and instructions of the national association which are also meant to ensure adherence to the club licensing dictates. “Highlanders groups have been querying why we are keeping Joel who cannot sit on the bench or do anything for the team. The board called us for a meeting where we were told that we have to abide by the rules and relieve all unqualified staff including Joel,” reads the message. When sought for a comment, Highlanders executive committee member chairman Sibanda claimed he was not aware of the board’s position. “I am not aware of what you are talking about,” said Sibanda when reached by Chronicle Online. In terms of the club licensing requirements, which the board wants adherence to, the board of directors’ portfolio is non-existent. Luphahla has a running contract with Highlanders, which means the club would have to negotiate with the coach for its termination, something that has financial implications.  -@skhumoyo2000.