The Chronicle The Lord condemns a union of a Christian and a heathen. 2 Corithians 6:14-16 “14 Do not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship has righteousness with lawlessness? And what communion has lightness with darkness? 15 And what accord has Christ with Belial?”(NKJV) When you marry an unbeliever, you will have broken the principle “darkness has no fellowship with light.” Fellowship is friendly association, especially with people who share your interest; it is a union. You cannot unite darkness and light. Wherever you release light, darkness flees. Even in the natural realm, light and darkness do not go hand in glove; they are in conflict.  One chases away the other because they cannot co-exist.  A born again person has the life of Christ and a non-believer is referred to in spiritual language as a ‘dead man’ because he does not have the living Christ in him. Seeing a believer marrying a non–believer is an offense in heaven; an abomination. It will be like yoking death and life together. It is impossible, it is either life continues or death takes it away. A contamination happens when you try to merge the two. Unbelievers, referred to also as heathens or pagans are not in the kingdom of God; therefore, they belong to that of the devil. This denotes that while we refer to the Lord as our father, their father is the devil. Therefore, I always point out to my spiritual daughters without hesitation or beating about the bush this one bitter truth. Calling a spade a spade, I tell them this, “If you marry an unbeliever you officially become a daughter in law of the devil because the spiritual father of pagans is the devil himself!” How do you know that the devil has paid you a visit in your marriage? When there arises constant fights, arguments and strife in your marriage. λ You will always be in counselling sessions or even divorce court, λ Infidelity. Infidelity is a common problem in these types of relationships, λ Sexual differences, λ Religious marital differences, λ  Values and beliefs, λ Traumatic situations, λ Stress, λ  Boredom, λ Jealousy, λ• Financial fights, arguments and problems.