The Chronicle 1. Cashiez – Real Geez
2. Maggie Soul Bird – A Chance
3. Mkhiwa Omuhle – Amaqhawentaba
4. Poly da Nqoe – Ko Bulawayo
5. Zhezhingtons – Impendulo
6. Ma9ne feat Enzo Ishall – Chimuti
7. Sbhev – Uptown
8. Primacy – Kanjani
9. Oxzy – Layinela
10. Clsxs – Faded Remix This week, rapper Cashiez is topping the charts with his song, Real Geez. Below is a profile of the musician.
Question: Can you please tell us about yourself?
Answer: I’m known as Cashiez in music circles. I was born Thabo Brandon Ndlovu and I come from Lobengula West. I was born and bred in Bulawayo the City of Kings and Queens. I’m the first-born of a family of four, two boys and two girls. I did my primary education at Mhali Primary School then I went to Masotsha High School and Foundation Technical College.
Q: How did you venture into music?
A: One of my friends asked me to accompany him to the studio and I liked the environment. From that day, I started working on my own music and never stopped.
Q: The song Real Geez, what inspired it, and who did you work with?
A: Real Geez was inspired by the day-to-day life that we live. I worked with the late Cal_Vin on this one as he came up with the beat and mastered the track.
Q: How long have you been in the music industry?
A: I have been in the music industry for four years. My first tracks were Rich and Blessed which dropped in 2019 and are available on SoundCloud.
Q: Which artistes have you worked with?
A: I have worked with quite a number of artistes in the region, namely Thuts Rodney, Mzistozz Mfanafuthi and the late Cal_Vin.
Q: Do you have an album?
A: I haven’t dropped an album yet. I have an EP titled #L.I.F.E and four singles. My notable tracks are Poof ft Cal Vin, Vereza ft Mzistozz Mfanafuthi and Made ft Funtrax Makhoya.  Q: Who inspires you?
A: It’s always been Sandra “Sandy” Ndebele and the late Beatar Mangethe. But the one guy that inspired me to venture into rap music is the greatest of all time, 2pac Amaru Shakur.
Q: Other than rap music, is there another genre that you sing in?
A: I specialise in rap music.
Q: What do you think makes a good song?
A: A good beat and dope lyrics.
Q: What do you think artistes from the city should do to be recognised?
A: We only need to work together and have more live shows in and out of the city.