The Chronicle Mashudu Netsianda, Deputy News Editor SIXTEEN former Gwanda Municipality workers have taken the local authority to court for allegedly failing to pay them more than $9 million in outstanding exit packages. The workers said they were last given part of their payments of $150 000 each in October last year. Former community services officer, Mr Gilbert Mabusa and 15 others, through their lawyers Mathonsi Ncube Law Chambers, filed summons at the Bulawayo High Court seeking an order compelling Gwanda Municipality to pay them $9 159 680 being exit packages and cash in lieu of residential stands, which are due to each one of them. In papers before the court, the local authority was cited as a defendant. In their plaintiffs’ declaration, the former council workers said on February 14 last year, Gwanda Municipality, under certificate of settlement form number LRI, agreed to pay all outstanding amounts owed to the beneficiaries.  “Of all the beneficiaries, only two have been fully paid. The 16 remaining beneficiaries were last pay part payments of $150 000 each around October last year, leaving a total debt of $9 159 680, which is the amount owed by council,” said the plaintiffs. The former council workers said despite several reminders through letters and phone calls, there has been no positive response from their former employer. “On July 29 last year, Gwanda Municipality finance director Mr Xolani Dube undertook to pay 50 percent of the total amount owed in August 2022 with the balance payable end of September 2022 but failed to do so. Further, on 9 September 2022, the final demand letter was sent to the town clerk, again there was no response,” said the plaintiffs. Aggrieved by Gwanda Municipality’s failure to honour up, the ex-council workers approached the High Court. “Despite lawful demand, the defendant has failed, refused, and neglected to pay the sum of $9 159 680 owed to plaintiffs. In addition, the value of the RTGS erodes on a daily basis, leaving the plaintiffs worse off,” said the former workers. “Wherefore, plaintiff prays for an order of payment of $9 159 680, being exit packages and cash in lieu of residential stands due to each beneficiary.”