The Chronicle Musician L’vovo Derrango is recovering well at home after spending Christmas at a hospital in Durban following a mild stroke on December 23. Born Thokozani Ndlovu, L’vovo suffered a stroke while performing at Ndwedwe, outside Durban in KwaZulu-Natal. He was immediately rushed to hospital where he discovered that he had suffered a stroke. The singer, who was in the process of recording his next EP was discharged last week Thursday following his recovery, his manager Sthabiso Dladla told Sowetan. Just after his friend Mandla “Mampintsha” Maphumulo died, rumours emerged on social media that L’vovo had also passed on. However, it turned out to be a hoax. Dladla said: “L’vovo has amazingly recovered. He can feel the side that suffered the stroke and can even move the leg. When the incident happened, he was on stage and he just felt his body locking. He thought maybe it was related to the accident he had suffered months earlier.”  “We are happy to see him recovering and he is able to speak. He is doing well, but in terms of performing, we don’t know when he will be ready to perform. We will be guided by the doctors when it comes to that because he has not started therapy yet.” Dladla said when L’vovo suffered the stroke, he had been booked at different places and they had to cancel nine gigs that were already confirmed. Since contracts that artists normally sign protect them if they fail to perform due to situations beyond their control, Dladla did not have to return the deposit. “His current health problem affected a lot of plans. Since he was close to Big Nuz, he decided to give the group a chance to release first and support them. After Big Nuz dropped their album, we had planned that he would go to the studio to work on his album. When the incident happened, he had already recorded one song. All that will be put on pause while he recovers.” Dladla further revealed that after suffering the mild stroke, L’vovo was a changed man and wants to lead a healthy lifestyle. “He told us that the life of not sleeping, not eating right and defaulting on his high blood pressure medication will be a thing of the past. He wants to eat healthily and focus on his life, now that he has a second chance. About the passing of Mampintsha, he is definitely affected. They were close friends and spent a lot of time together. More than that, L’vovo learnt a lot from Mampintsha.” — Sowetan