The Chronicle Innocent Kurira,  Sports Reporter THE next 48 hours will be crucial for Zimbabwean international Marvelous Nakamba who has to make a decision on his future before the mid-season transfer window closes at midnight tomorrow. With coach Unai Emery having already told Nakamba that he is not in his plans, the midfielder will need to move if he is to get game time.
No offers have been made so far but according to reports from the United Kingdom, some clubs in the English top-flight and the Championship are monitoring the situation. According to the Birmingham Mail “Nakamba is hoping to find a move away from Villa with a couple of Premier League clubs and Championship sides monitoring the situation.”
The 29-year-old, who arrived at Villa Park in 2019 will enter the final 12 months of his contract at the end of this season.  Nakamba is one of the three players that have been put on the transfer list by the club, along with Frenchman Morgan Sanson and Swedish Ludwig Augustinsson.
Emery has set sights on securing Matteo Guendouzi in a deal rumoured to be involving Nakamba moving to Marseille in a swap exchange. The Warriors international signed for Aston Villa from Belgian giants Club Brugge for €12m in August 2019. Nakamba has made 58 EPL appearances since joining the club, 29 coming in his maiden season in the 2019/20 season.
He followed that up with 13 appearances the next season but has had to grapple with a series of injuries and loss of form. Nakamba was a key figure in the early days of Steven Gerrard’s reign but a knee injury in December 2021 impacted heavily on his progress. The Zimbabwe Warriors midfielder who had fallen out of favor with previous managers Dean Smith, Gerrard and his interim successor Aaron Danks, still found it difficult to get game time under Emery.
Last season Nakamba had 16 appearances but was yet to play a minute of English Premiership football this year, apart from a few friendly games during the World Cup break. — @innocentskizoe