The Chronicle Thandeka Moyo-Ndlovu, Senior Health Reporter ZIMBABWE continues to aim at having the majority of its citizens vaccinated against Covid-19 while adhering to guidelines as a measure to avert the spread of Covid-19 as more cases are being detected on a daily basis. National Response to the Covid-19 pandemic in the Office of the President and Cabinet chief coordinator Dr Agnes Mahomva said as the new year has started, members of the public should remain vigilant in adhering to guidelines. She also allayed fears over the detected XBB.1.5 variant saying the World Health Organisation had resolved that it is not of concern and that no one should panic over it as long known measures are adhered to. As of Sunday, Zimbabwe had recorded 260 478 Covid-19 cases which include 254 253 recoveries and 5 639 deaths.  So far a total of 6 588 423 Zimbabweans have received their first dose of the vaccine, 4 955 794 their second while 1 286 451 have received their third dose. In an interview, Dr Mahomva said as Government had played its role in procuring enough vaccines and putting in place measures to ensure that citizens are safe from Covid-19, people should adhere and get vaccinated. “Firstly we should stop focusing on herd immunity targets as a country but rather do our best to ensure that everyone who is eligible gets vaccinated as this has been proven to be effective in averting the spread of Covid-19. We have also noted that we continue to record more people who are now immune to the virus in our communities given the rising number of infections and recoveries. Our aim this year is not to set targets but to have everyone do their part in adhering to set guidelines which include vaccination as this will help us control any Covid-19 variant,” said Dr Mahomva. “With regards to this new variant that has been detected in other countries like South Africa, my advice is there is no need to panic, we are on track. When other countries relaxed measures, we maintained testing and screening at ports of entry. The World Health Organisation said there is nothing to worry about and we are sticking to Statutory Instrument (SI) 67 of 2022. In fact, it’s the WHO that assured us there won’t be any need to change our strategies,” Dr Mahomva said. She also said a strong surveillance system had been set up to monitor Covid-19 in schools as they have since opened for the first term urging parents to encourage eligible learners to get vaccinated as well. — @thamamoe.