The Chronicle Sikhulekelani Moyo, Business Reporter THE Grain Millers Association of Zimbabwe (GMAZ) says the bumper wheat harvest achieved in the last season is a big boost to the milling industry value chain as it promotes job preservation and cushions local producers from reliance on imports. Commending the enhanced collaboration between the Government, farmers, and the private sector, millers have said the momentous harvest was a big statement on Zimbabwe’s determination to substitute imports. According to the Ministry of Lands, Agriculture, Fisheries, Water and Rural Development, Zimbabwe produced 375 000 tonnes of wheat in the last winter wheat season, enough to meet the country’s supplies for 13 months. Zimbabwe is one of the only two African countries that are self-sufficient in wheat as the Government’s agriculture transformation strategy starts bearing fruit. Reflecting on this milestone, GMAZ chairperson, Mr Tafadzwa Musarara, said the improved domestic wheat output from the last season, would assist local companies to reduce reliance on importing. “The 2022 winter wheat harvest is historic as it is the biggest harvest ever achieved and also the biggest import substitution program since independence,” he told Business Chronicle.  “The availability of a 13-month cover provides comfort to millers as the required raw material will be adequate for the full year.” Mr Musarara said GMAZ was using approximately US$200 million annually in importing wheat, which will now be saved due to available local supplies. Under the Second Republic led by President Mnangagwa, Zimbabwe has been ramping up its agriculture production as part of a comprehensive economic transformation agenda towards an upper middle-income status by 2030. The improved winter output dovetails with Government’s US$8,2 billion Agriculture and Food Systems Transformation Strategy, which was launched by President Mnangagwa in August 2020 to boost food production. The strategy seeks to enhance food security from the household level as the country works towards achieving Vision 2030, and has already met its target with Government hinting at setting new targets. In the prior season, (2021) winter wheat production rose to 330 000 tonnes from 212 000 tonnes. On average Zimbabwe requires 360 000 tonnes of wheat annually and for years the country imported wheat from Ukraine. However, the ongoing Russian-Ukrainian war has escalated the need for nations to become self-sufficient as the conflict has adversely affected supply chains and increased the price of wheat. — @SikhulekelaniM