The Chronicle The Word of God teaches us that truth sets you free. Sometimes in life you go through bad things that affect your personality and you might not be the person you would like to be. You need to honestly look at yourself and realise that any extreme in your character is not good. You need to acknowledge the fact that you need help and restoration. Realise when you are too angry, too impulsive, too scattered, over anxious, very undisciplined or any other feature of your personality that you would want to change. Living a life in denial is living a life of emotional instability. We need to confess our faults and recognise where we have gone wrong. There are many people throughout the world that had childhood hurts but we cannot continue to make excuses for our erratic behaviour caused by emotional issues. Many people are unable to move forward in life because of such issues. They felt victimised but sadly wallowing in self-pity has never helped anyone to heal. Forgiveness is an important part of healing. It takes you a step closer towards your healing and recovery. Forgiveness is not defeat but instead it enables you to have a Christ like nature and will help you to move forward in victory. Forgiveness allows you to strengthen any weak area in your life. Do not suppress negative emotions expose them to the Holy Spirit. Open up every negative emotion that is troubling you to God, He has the power to heal you. Tell Him everything that you have gone through. Do not try to be tough. Release every negative feeling to Him in prayer and cry if you have to. You can open up to a man of God as well.  Psalm 139:23 Search me, O God, and know my heart; test me and know my anxious thoughts.(NIV) Some emotions are no longer under the control of your will. They rage unchecked in the depths of your personality and often emerge in the form of sickness. You can’t be released from them unless you hand them over to God. Never suppress an emotional hurt because any, feeling you suppress becomes inaccessible and you will not grow. God Bless… eaglelifeasembly@yahoo.com