The Chronicle THE Law of Preparation. Painstaking preparation is the key to a great future. It is im¬possible to become prodigious without preparing to be such. Develop yourself through skill acquisition and a mindset that will position you for success. Opportunity is created daily (as we pray for our daily bread) and yet only a few are able or equipped to seize it. Growing up, I knew that I was going to be a Prophet of God. I therefore changed my lifestyle, character, behaviour and prayer life to assimilate what I was going to become. I did not have girlfriends and did not succumb to peer pressure. One young man, tried to influence me to sleep around in order to “gain experience”  these were his words and my response was, “Adam was the first man on earth and the Bible says, ‘at one-time Eve conceived,’ so I do not need experience.” I knew what I wanted to become, I wanted to be a holy man of God, so I had to develop accordingly. How did Adam know how to make Eve conceive when he was the first being to be created by God?
Proverbs 21:31 The horse is prepared for the day of battle, But deliverance is of the LORD. (NKJV) Similarly, if you want to become a multimillionaire you have to begin paying attention to detail (develop a spirit of excellence), how you spend your time, how you dress, among other things. Abraham Lincoln said, “I will prepare and someday my chance will come!” When the desire to become a president was birthed in Abraham Lincoln’s heart he prepared, he equipped himself to become a great man. As a Spirit filled young man I told myself repetitively that I would study to prepare myself because someday my chance would come and it happened. I was taught by my father that elephants do not bite but mos¬quitoes do and they cause malaria! People pay attention to major tendencies and ignore the small, seemingly insignificant habits, which leave room for them to become character traits that can keep you bound in poverty. Identify those small foxes and change; deal with them before they affect your destiny. Change your conduct, show signs that you believe in where you are going. Will you be adequately prepared when your opportunity arises? God Bless. eaglelifeassembly@yahoo.com