The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter HOLLYWOOD-BASED Zimbabwean actor Tongai Arnold Chirisa says he has matured enough in film to win an Academy Award, better known as the Oscars within the next five years. “In the next five years, I see myself hopefully with an Oscar. That’s one of the amazing goals that anyone in this industry dreams to have at highest level. I see myself not only with an Oscar, but continually doing some amazing work that will inspire many. I feel like have just started on the great epic journey,” said Chirisa. The Oscars are awards for artistic and technical merit for the American film industry. The actor-cum-singer born in 1981, was in Victoria Falls recently where he, in the company of script writer and director Jessy Rowlands and producer Joe Njagu, are working on a film whose aim is to tell the Zimbabwean story. The setting will be Victoria Falls, the cast will be from the resort city and the storyline will be local, to tell the story of Victoria Falls Boxing Academy founder Tobias Mupfuti, thereby putting not only Victoria Falls on the world map. Chirisa believes the time is now for Zimbabwean actors to come out of the backyard and claim space on the big stage. The National Arts Merit Awards winner and former Lomagundi College pupil says there is abundant talent that needs commercialisation in Zimbabwe.  Chirisa has played in several acts after breaking into the acting stage, playing detective Trever Davis on Zimbabwean TV series Studio 263, and a role in Tanyaradzva in 2004 which won him the best actor for film and TV award and radio drama Mopani Junction. His amateur acting journey started at Courtney Selous Primary School where teachers always told him to pursue acting as a career. He holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Live Performance. Chirisa features in the AMC horror series Mayfair Witches. He also plays Man Friday on NBC’s Crusoe television series, Father Nicholas on The Jim Gaffigan Show and played on the international feature film Skin as well as a lead role in Redemption on SABC 1. Many will know the hilarious Hekule on Leon Schuster’s Mr Bones 2: Back from the past. With all these credits, Chirisa says none of them is better than the other. “Every project is unique and different: it stretches you in different ways intellectually, physically, mentally and emotionally but the beauty about it is that it gives you a new dimension with respect of yourself. “They are all a stepping stone to something bigger and because every project is different, you can’t really compare them side by side because they always bring something different out of you. But I can safely say that I do enjoy the journey of self-discovery within the character that I am playing so all projects are special and unique, and because of that, this job is so exciting,” he said. Chirisa said being in Hollywood is the pinnacle of acting as everybody that wants to make a name for themselves on the international stage wishes to go there. He believes the Zimbabwean film sector can’t be compared with South Africa and Hollywood because of lack of proper infrastructure and state of economy. He says in America and South Africa there is an understanding of the business side of film. “It’s joy and privilege and I knew it was always gonna be hard work but I think the beauty about it is that you are collaborating with creators from all over the world, who have the same common vison to produce the best that they can when it comes to entertainment. “There is no better place than Hollywood. Living and working there you get to see how it’s done and hopefully with that knowledge I can come back and share with the locals and lift up our locals to highest level. We have seen initiatives by Government and I believe we are working towards forming some coalition of some sort to bring across some awareness. We need support and we need these financial structures to give filmmakers a platform to really showcase talent and their stories in a way that will bring business sense. The talent is there, we just now need to figure out the business aspect of it which is why sometimes you have to work and come back to produce your own content,” said Chirisa. He recalls how fortunate he was to have many people that mentored and opened doors for him, from talent search shows to the days of Studio 263 and the Zimbabwe International Film Festival short films, and even backstage theatre in the park run by Davis Guzha. To him everything was an amazing stepping stone. “I think acting was something that was in me I didn’t know until my teachers in primary school and high school pointed out that this was a gift and so through shared education and the love of acting, these are all elements that made before the transition to South Africa and acting at a higher professional level. “I owe much to my mentor Walter Mparutsa who pretty much taught me the reigns in theatre and why it is such a powerful tool in shifting social dynamics and culture. With that knowledge and passion to succeed, I have never looked back,” Chirisa said. He said the upcoming Victora Falls film will be one of the first many projects that he will do in the country. He said there are bigger ideas and stories that need to be told. To him filmmaking is not a one person role but needs the right vision and understanding. He believes little investment has been put in arts and film in Victoria Falls despite being a world tourism destination and having a beautiful natural wonder. He feels there is need to champion Zimbabwe film and bring Zimbabweans from the backyard, with everyone getting down to sell the country through various means including film and arts. “I am just a fine person. I am a happy go fine guy enjoying life and working harder to make dreams come true. This is my first time in Victoria Falls in a long time and I regret only starting to enjoy now when I could have started much earlier but I am not gonna stop now. “Many people come here to enjoy what we have so I definitely encourage people to travel more and enjoy what we have as you don’t want to miss out on what God has given us,” he said.