The Chronicle    Brandon Moyo, Sports Reporter ZIMBABWEAN all-rounder Sikandar Raza’s 2023 Pakistan Super League (PSL) side, Lahore Qalandars suffered their first defeat of the season after a 67 runs defeat at the hands of Karachi Kings at National Stadium in Karachi, Pakistan on Sunday. In four overs Raza did not take any wickets as Kings scored 185-5 in 20 overs and scored 18 runs off 12 deliveries as the Qalandars were bowled out for 118 runs in 17.3 overs to suffer their first defeat of the season having won their opening match. In the first innings of the match, Raza gave away 27 runs at an economy rate of 6.75 with the ball and coming in to bat at number at number six, his innings comprised of one four and one six at a strike of 150 to be the team’s third highest run getter on the night as they struggled to get going with the bat. For the Kings side, England International James Vince top scored with a 36 ball 46 runs while his opening partner Mathew Wade made 36 runs from 24 balls before he was run out. Captain Imad Wasim remained undefeated with 35 runs. Shaheen Shah Afridi, Zaman Khan, Haris Rauf and Liam Dawson all took one wicket each for the Qalandars. The Qalandars, who are the defending champions saw their batsmen fail to step up with the leading run getter being Mirza Baig who scored 45 runs from 39 balls followed by Kamran Ghulam with 22 runs and Raza. Fakhar Zaman was the only other batter to cross double figures with 15 runs. Raza joined the defending champions of the league for the eighth edition of the decorated tournament after a stint with International League T20 (ILT20) side Dubai Capitals who failed to reach the final tournament that was won by Gulf Giants who defeated Desert Vipers by seven wickets in the final. Next up for Qalandars is a match against Gladiators tomorrow at the National Stadium. In related news, Raza also signed a bat sponsorship deal with bat maker MB Malik who have cricketers such as Iftikhar Ahmed, Mohammad Wasim and Sarfaraz Ahmed among others in their stable. – @brandon_malvin 