The Chronicle Brandon Moyo, Sports Reporter IT is a norm that whenever one performs well in the domestic cricket league, they should be given a chance to represent the country on the international stage. As the year 2023 got off, a name that some never expected to see play for the Chevrons after a long sabbatical was recalled to the national team, which led to fierce arguments among followers of the gentlemen’s game on his worthiness. Former national team captain Chamunorwa Chibhabha made a return to the side in last month’s white ball series against Ireland in Harare and is part of the Test squad that is up against West Indies in Bulawayo. But does he deserve to be in the national side despite not having good international numbers after a long career? If one is to go by domestic form, the 36-year-old batter deserved a dance with the Chevrons against Ireland in the One Day series but if his international form is anything to go by, maybe he does not. Chibhabha finished as the second leading run-scorer with 391 runs at an average of 55, 85, which in any case is good enough for the national team. On his return to the side he made 40 runs in the second One Day International (ODI) which Ireland went on to win by 46 runs. In the third and final match which was abandoned, he fell for 16 runs before rain brought the match to a standstill. In the longest format of the game, inclusion to the Test side is questionable to some and in the first match, for Zimbabwe against West Indies last week, he made nine and 31 runs in his two innings as the Chevrons salvaged a draw. What do the fans think about his return despite him returning to a team that is missing some of their big names?  “In my opinion, his performance is a bit slacking so I would say maybe if we are out of options, yes he can play but in a good strong team no he shouldn’t be in the team. We have a whole lot of talented players that are not getting the opportunity to play, we are only playing names now, we are no longer playing talent,” said a fan called Simba Mangudu. Another fan, Divine Nyoni whom Saturday Chronicle spoke to during the first Test at Queens Sports Club concurs with Mangudu. “He no longer fits the quality of the national team, even his technique is not convincing enough,” he said. Despite criticism from some, he has the support of some fans who still think his services are needed in the team. Jina Ndlovu believes being out of form happens to every sports person and falling short is part of the game. Having played for some time, she believes he might be just fatigued. “It happens to everyone to fall short but he is picked because of potential and it is our duty as fans to support them all the time,” she said. Another fan, who watched the first Test, Phanuel Chaitezvi said the former national team captain deserves the slot in the Zimbabwe side however he has questions about his match awareness. “He does deserve a place in the national team but my concern is on his technicality mostly based on reading what the match requires at a particular time; time to excel and go out and out and hit and time to play defensive and hold the innings, regardless of whether it is T20, ODI or Test, he needs to master that. Once he is able to master that he will be good, he is a good player,” he said. Chibhabha was the top run scorer in the Chevrons’ second innings against the Windies and one fan said he brings experience to the team making reference to his second innings score and also his stats in the domestic game are good. To date, Chibhabha has played 109 games for Zimbabwe scoring 2474 runs at an average of 23, 12 with a high score of 99 which came against Pakistan in 2015. In T20Is, he has played 36 matches and amassed 667 runs at 19, 05 with a high score of 67 runs. In the longest format, he has four caps under his name with 164 runs in eight innings at an average of 20, 50, and a high score of 60 runs. In his career spanning from 2005, he is ranked in position eight among players with the most runs without any century in 50 overs cricket. – @brandon_malvin