The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Reporter PARLIAMENT this week will conduct public hearings to determine the mandatory sentence imposed on rapists while legislating fines imposed on those who speak ill of the country to foreigners. It will also conduct public hearings to amend the law that deals with prisons so that the legislation aligns to international laws. Public hearings will also be conducted on the enactment of the Prisons and Correctional Services Bill and the Criminal Law Codification and Reform Amendment Bill. Parliament said the talking points on the Criminal Law Codification and Reform Amendment Bill will be on the issues to do with patriotism and sentences imposed on rapists. “Talking points on the Criminal Law (Codification and Reform) Amendment BILL [H.B. 15, 2022]. The purpose of the Bill is to amend various provisions of the Criminal Law Code with a view to criminalise an act of wilfully damaging the sovereignty, dignity, and independence of Zimbabwe; set the minimum mandatory sentence for rape committed in aggravating circumstances at 15 years and for rape committed with no aggravating circumstances at five years,” reads Parliament statement. The Bill is also targeting to amend the definition of “dangerous drugs” to include prepared opium, prepared cannabis, cannabis resin, and a scheduled drug. It will also define industrial hemp and      clarify the crime of abuse of public office by limiting the crime to include an essential element of knowledge on the part of a public official that his or her conduct was illegal. On the other hand, the Prisons and Correctional Services Bill, will align the Prison Act with international statutes. “This Bill will provide for the establishment, functions, and administration of the Prisons and Correctional Service; the Prisons and Correctional Service Commission; the establishment of prisons and correctional facilities; the functions, rights, obligations, and discipline of prison officers; the safe custody of all offenders under humane conditions that respect human dignity; the discipline of offenders; the obligations and rights of sentenced offenders; the obligations and rights of unsentenced offenders,” read the statement. The Bill will establish the system of parole for offenders, mechanism to deal with complaints of abuse of offenders and  judicial and civilian oversight of the operations of the Service. The law will also determine the penalties for offenses and the repeal of the Prisons Act and the substitution of an Act entitled the Prisons and Correctional Service Act. Public hearing for the Criminal Law Codification and Reform Amendment Bill will be held at Bulawayo Selborne Hotel and Luveve Beit Hall on Wednesday starting at 10AM and at 2PM. On Thursday, the teams will conduct public hearings in Lupane, Matabeleland North while on Friday they will be in Matabeleland South, Mthwakazi Hall in Filabusi and Jahunda Primary Hall in Gwanda. -@nqotshili