The Chronicle    Nqobile Bhebhe, Senior Reporter GOVERNMENT will today complete assessing the performance of local authorities’ top leadership based on contracts signed last year before new contracts are issued, as part of ongoing measures to restore sanity and improve service delivery. The Government introduced performance-based contracts in 2020 where senior administrators in Government starting with permanent secretaries’ performance is expected to be measured. Some local authorities signed the contracts last year while others said they wanted to study the documents first, but the Government insists that all local authorities have to sign the contracts. The signing of the performance contracts which were meant for 2021 marked the start of a new system where those managing the public service were expected to perform to defined standards in line with key reforms in the public sector as the country moves towards an upper-middle-class economy by 2030. In correspondence to all mayors, town clerks, council chairperson, chief executive officers and town secretaries dated 2 February, acting permanent secretary for Local Government and Public Works, an L Mudyiwa said the four-day exercise which began on Friday in Harare ends today. “You are cordially invited to attend in person the assessment of your annual performance against the set targets in your 2022 performance contracts signed in February and April of the same year. “As you are aware, 2022 Performance Contracts implementation came to an end on 31 December and as such the assessments are due before new contracts are signed,” reads part of the letter. “In view of the above, the assessments have been scheduled for 10-14 February 2023. The assessments are going to be carried out in Harare….” A validation workshop of all contracts was held in Mutare from 27 to 31 January where matters were raised with the planning processes and the subsequent planning documents, read the letter. “It is against this background that the 2023 performance contracts will also be finalised in preparation for the signing ceremony and you are encouraged to bring with you the person responsible for crafting of the contracts as the process will be done simultaneously.” The performance-based contracts are in line with the Government’s thrust of monitoring to ensure all arms of Government contribute towards the development of the nation. Government introduced performance-based contracts last year and all permanent secretaries were the first to sign the contracts. Ministers, chief directors, directors and other top officials including Vice-Chancellors of State universities also followed suit in the signing of the contracts, with President Mnangagwa insisting that results of the performance of public officials will be made public. Zimbabwean ambassadors signed performance contracts in November last year. Public officials are expected to drive the country’s economic Vision 2030 of transforming the country into an upper middle income by 2030. In April last year, the Minister of Local Government and Public Works, Cde July Moyo, presided over the signing of the contracts for mayors and council chairpersons from most of the country’s local authorities, at the Large City Hall in Bulawayo. However, at the time, a few councils, including Bulawayo mayor, Councillor Solomon Mguni did not sign the contracts. Clr Mguni said councillors had to first convene a full council meeting to review the contract before giving the green light for him to append his signature on it. Other councils that did not sign at the time include Victoria Falls, Mutare, Chipinge, Chirundu, Ruwa, Karoi and Mvurwi. 