The Chronicle Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter THE Basketball Union of Zimbabwe (Buz) has announced their men’s and women’s squads for the Afro-Basket Zone Six qualifiers and Afro Can qualifiers competitions to be held in Bulawayo later this month. The two competitions will run from February 20-28. Buz president Joe Mujuru said they have intensified their preparations for the regional competitions. “As the hosts, we are confident that both our men’s and women’s sides will do well. Looking at the players that have been selected, I feel we have good squads that can compete regionally. There are a number of new faces in both squads which is evidence that new talent is coming up. I believe we will do well,” said Mujuru. Five countries have confirmed participation. The confirmed nations alongside the hosts Zimbabwe are Angola women, Mozambique men and women, South Africa men and women, Malawi men and Zambia. The men’s side of the competition was moved from November 2022 to this year so that it runs concurrently with the women’s qualifiers which were confirmed to be coming to Bulawayo after the men’s. The senior men’s team has Kelvin Ben as the head coach. He is assisted by Theodore Weale and Francis Dube while Pondai Chitauro is in charge of the women’s side with the assistant being Gladys Phiri.  Men: Dyvonne Pfachi, Chris Tsvarai, Andile Chirinda, Tawanda Chitsinde, Tatenda Tswatswa, Tanaka Ndyara, Irvine Manzini, Jordan Davids, Agrippa Masvisvi, Innocent Zhomwa, Tatenda Maturure, Noah Penduka, Manoah Ntini, Ben Nyatanga, Dexter Nganga, Davison Chivero, Panashe Kaduwa, Shonhiwa Ushe, Vitalis Chikoko, Alvin Madzedze Women: Helena Machavire, Nyasha Katsatse, Yolanda Matayataya, Francisca Sekete, Happeness Maroto, Emma Makoni, Kimberly Marembo, Ellen Chikoto, Thelma Goredema, Cynthia Mambo, Fadzai Munongo, Sharon Chamwarura, Mary Chawayipira, Tadiwa Mabika, Stabile Ngandini, Getrude Mapiye, Kelly Mhembere, Nomusa Dzobo, Lopez Viki, Mellissa Majonga Follow on Twitter — @innocentskizoe.