The Chronicle Brandon Moyo, Sports Reporter THE Hockey Association of Zimbabwe (HAZ) is once again appealing for player sponsorship as the date for the 2023 Africa Junior Championships edges closer. Zimbabwe men and women Under-21 sides are both set to take part in the junior championships that will be held in Cairo, Egypt next month with both teams struggling to find sponsorship for the trip.
The association is appealing to individuals and corporates to assist them in ensuring that they send the two teams to the continental showpiece. “We need your help. The Zimbabwe under 21 Ladies & Men’s teams need your help to participate at the Under 21 Junior Africa Cup. The teams comprise 36 young men and women who need airfares, accommodation, food, kit, visas and medical aid. Any form of assistance is greatly appreciated! We have great marketing opportunities where your brand can be seen,” HAZ posted on their social media pages.  In a bid to try and raise funds for the upcoming tournament, HAZ hosted exhibition matches in Harare last week where both their teams played against select teams at Saint John’s Trust Astro Turf.
Both teams won their encounters 2-0. Taking part in the tournament will give the youngsters the much needed international experience and exposure. HAZ also promised that sponsors will have access to breakdowns of the sponsorship expenditure as well as monthly reports from coaching staff attendance and performance of the players.
The Junior Africa Cup will serve as a direct qualifier for the 2023 Junior World Cup, with the winner and runner-up qualifying. Both teams are made up of 18 members after they were cut down from the 36 who made the provisional squad a couple of months back.
As the juniors are trying to prepare for Egypt, Zimbabwe’s Sarah Bennett officiated at the Men’s International Hockey Federation (FIH) Hockey World Cup 2023 final between Belgium and Germany last Sunday in India. Germany won the match 5-4 after a penalty shootout. – @brandon_malvin