The Chronicle According to Allied Research Consultants, a leading global market research company, the global eyewear market size was valued at $110,900.0 million in 2020, and is projected to reach $237,051.1 million by 2030, registering a compounded annual growth rate of 8.4%. To second this opinion another leading global research agency, Grandview Research, estimates that the global eyewear market size was valued at USD 157.9 billion in 2021 and is expected to expand at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 8.4% from 2022 to 2030. The range of products being sold to correct eyesight or protect the eyes in the eyewear market consist of spectacles, sunglasses, and lenses.  Insights from the reports indicate that the spectacles segment accounts for more than 55%. Why the sudden increase in the demand for spectacle products? Visual impairment and eye defects cases coupled with inclination toward latest fashion trends are the major factors that drive the growth of the global eyewear market. Rise in use of digital devices and gadgets by the young generation have led to an upsurge in the number of eye disorders, thereby, increasing the demand for vision correction products.  In addition to this, there has also been a significant increase in the occurrence of other eyesight related disorders, such as eye irritation, dry eyes, computer vision syndrome (CVS) and double vision, especially among working professionals. This can be accredited to the strain caused on the eyes due to the prolonged use of laptops, smartphones and tablets. Implications for the eye healthcare profession? This surge in the demand for eye care and eye care products presents opportunities for three different types of eye professionals – Optometrist, Ophthalmologist and Ophthalmic Technician (Dispensing Opticians). Optometrists examine, diagnose, and treat patients’ eyes; they also prescribe medications for eye diseases and/or dispense corrective devices such as spectacles and lenses. Ophthalmologists can provide all the services optometrists can—they can treat eye diseases, prescribe medication, and fit eyeglasses and contact lenses to correct vision problems. In addition, ophthalmologists are licensed to practice medicine and perform surgery. In supporting the work of the Optometrists and Ophthalmologists, there are technicians trained to fit eyeglass lenses and frames and contact lenses to correct vision problems – the Ophthalmic Technician (also known as Optician). These are the ones set to benefit the most from the growth in the eyewear market projected to reach US$237,051.1 million by 2030, and registering a compounded annual growth rate of 8.4 percent. What does the Ophthalmic Technician (Optician) really do? Opticians work individually with clients to fit them for eyeglasses and/or contact lenses. After reviewing and interpreting the prescription written by the optometrist or ophthalmologist, the optician will measure a customer’s eyes and face, recommend specific frames or lens treatments, and help choose the proper eyewear depending on a person’s vision needs, style preferences, and durability requirements for occupational or sports use. By taking accurate facial measurements, using sophisticated equipment, applying knowledge of ophthalmic lens materials and interpreting the prescription, the dispensing optician can order, manufacture and process ophthalmic lenses and produce devices to correct defects of vision. Opticians also educate customers about their eyewear by showing them how to care for their glasses and contact lenses. Additionally, these professionals are often tasked with performing general business duties such as managing sales records, maintaining customers’ prescriptions, and controlling inventory. Career prospects for Opticians: There are two types of opticians: a dispensing optician who sells eye glasses to the general public and a manufacturing optician who makes the eyeglasses. Opticians are employed in hospitals, private practices, eye care centres and corporations. The primary function of those who are manufacturing opticians is to make and repair eye glasses; the primary function of dispensing opticians is to sell these eye glasses, as well as do basic administrative tasks, patient scheduling and filing, education and occasionally even simple repairs and adjustments. The registered dispensing optician has several exciting opportunities available to them including: International demand for trained dispensing opticians is increasing, with a significant number of technicians working abroad. Interested in pursuing a career in the eye healthcare profession? Do you have at least 5 O’ levels, Maths and English included? Look no further – Intellectus Campus Zimbabwe is a HEXCO accredited training institute offering training for Ophthalmic Assistants. Contact us today to get more information on the National Certificate in Ophthalmic Optics which gets you going in the career as an Ophthalmic Assistant. With this qualification, one can proceed to study for a diploma in Ophthalmic Dispensing, or Ophthalmic Rehabilitation or Optometry Laboratory Technician – qualifications which allow you to practice as a technician. The diplomas are considered appropriate entry qualifications for further studies in Optometry with higher education institutions. Other Opportunities As one would appreciate that within the field of Ophthalmic, there would be other related opportunities such as ophthalmic rehabilitation. Rehab Workers are specialist professionals who are trained to support visually impaired people, enabling and empowering them to lead independent and fulfilling lives. For those interested in this career pathway, Intellectus Campus offers a Diploma in Ophthalmic Rehabilitation. For more information on these and other courses that we offer, visit our website www.intellectuscampus.com or email byo@intellectuscampus.com or call on 0780509505. Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article are those of the author based on research from reliable sources. They do not purport to reflect the opinions of any entities we are affiliated with, the engineering and medical industries or their members.