The Chronicle THE Meteorological Service Department (MSD) has warned of flash floods in the next five days as the country is expected to receive torrential rains. In a statement the MSD warned that most areas in the southern parts of the country- which cover Bulawayo, Masvingo, Midlands, Matabeleland North and South- will receive up to 65 millimetres of rain within 24 hours. “The effects of a cut off low, expected from Thursday 16 February into the weekend should be felt in most parts of the country with heavy rains expected in the southern half of the country. Rainfall in excess of 65 mm in 24 hours with a high probability of flash floods in the low lying areas are anticipated. This is normal for this time of the year, especially in the season that is expected to have above normal to normal rains,” reads the statement. As the rains continue to intensify, it has been reported that some pupils who cross rivers on their way to school have been cut off. Authorities have urged members of the public against crossing flooded rivers. Despite the heavy rains being recorded in most parts of the country, Bulawayo’s supply dams remain critically low. According to the Zimbabwe National Water Authority (Zinwa) latest update on the national dam levels, Umzingwane and Upper Ncema Dams are 12 percent, Lower Ncema 22 percent, Inyankuni 39 percent, Insiza 42 percent, and Mtshabezi 74 percent full. Zinwa corporate communications and marketing manager, Mrs Marjorie Munyonga said Bulawayo, together with Mt Darwin, and Mutoko, remain water insecure with less than 12 months of supplies in their raw water sources, which constitute 8,5 percent. “Centres that remain water insecure with less than 12 months supplies in their raw water sources constitute 8,5 percent and include Mt Darwin, Bulawayo, and Mutoko. At proportion, 40,4 percent of the urban centres, towns, growth points and rural service centres are in the moderate category with their water supply dams holding water sufficient to last periods between 12 and 20, 9 months,” she said. @nqotshili End 