The Chronicle Dube-Matutu, Matabeleland South Bureau Chief GROWING up in a rural area and learning in rural schools did not stop Nkosiphile Moyo (34) of Filabusi from achieving his goal of being a top-notch sciences teacher. Moyo, who teaches Mathematics, Chemistry and Physics at secondary level, has won awards for recording best results in his area of expertise. Moyo, who teaches at the Johannesburg Polytechnic College in South Africa, recently walked away with an award being the best educator in Physical Science and Mathematics under the 2022 National Senior Certificate Awards for Johannesburg East District. In 2020 he was awarded for achieving a 100 percent Matric pass in Mathematics Literacy at Demseel College in Johannesburg. He was the first Sciences teacher at Mabhikwa High School in Lupane in 2013. He introduced Physics and Chemistry for a Form 3 class which became the first class to sit for Sciences examinations at the school in the following year. In 2015 the school introduced its first A-level Science class which was taught by Moyo. He taught at the school up to 2018 and helped to develop the Science’s Department. Moyo has also recorded good pass rates in various local schools that he has taught in. Moyo, who is a holder of Bachelor of Science Education Honours Degree in Physics from the National University of Science and Technology, said the journey to fulfilling his career dream was tough. He only studied Sciences at tertiary level as the secondary school he attended only offered Arts. He did his primary education at Tshazi Primary School from 1993 to 1999 and secondary at Tshazi Secondary School in Filabusi District from 2000 to 2003. Due to financial challenges he failed to immediately proceed to A-level and only proceeded with his education in 2006 and he completed his A-level in 2007. “Growing up I was raised by a single mother and finances were a challenge at home. My mother used to knit jerseys and sell them in order to pay for my education. She also performed piece jobs for people and she used to sell vegetables as well. I was one of those learners who would hardly have a complete uniform as my mother was struggling to make ends meet.  “Each school year was full of uncertainties as I wasn’t sure whether my mother would manage to pay my school fees. Whenever she paid I would work extra hard to ensure that I recorded good grades. In 2003 I completed my O-levels but my mother didn’t have the money for me to immediately continue with my education. She died while I was waiting to proceed to A-level which made the situation even worse. My sister came to my aid and paid school fees for me to continue with my education,” he said. Moyo said his strength is in Mathematics hence it was always his desire to study Science subjects at some point in his life. Upon completing his A-level Moyo worked as a temporary teacher for two years in a bid to raise money for his tertiary education. Moyo proceeded to Hillside Teachers’ College in 2010 where he specialised in Sciences — Physics, Chemistry and Biology. He attained a Bachelor of Science Education Honours Degree in Physics from the National University of Science and Technology in 2019. “I first studied Sciences at tertiary level at college. Even though I had not studied Sciences at secondary level I managed to secure a place in college as I had an A in O-level Mathematics and an A in Integrated Science. It was always my desire to study Science subjects and I’m glad that I was given the opportunity,” he said. Moyo taught Sciences in various schools in Bulawayo from 2018 to 2019. In 2020 he moved to South Africa. Moyo said although he was based in South Africa it is his desire to come back home and help to develop the country’s education sector. “I joined Demseel College in Johannesburg West in 2020 where I taught Mathematics. I received a certificate for recording a 100 percent Matric pass in Mathematic Literacy in that same year. I recently secured an award from my school for being top achieving educator in Physical Science and Mathematics under the 2022 National Senior Certificate Awards for Johannesburg East District. The district had about 30 secondary schools. “These awards are a great achievement for me. I wish to take the knowledge and expertise that I have gained to nurture learners back home. I know that I can bring in meaningful contribution. People often complain that Science subjects are difficult but for me they are just like any other subject and they have become a part of my life,” he said. Moyo said despite coming from poor backgrounds and rural set up learners could achieve their goals if they put their minds to it. He said when the gap arises or an opportunity comes learners have to fully utilise it. — @DubeMatutu 