The Chronicle Mbulelo Mpofu, Showbiz Reporter AT the turn of the millennium, late South African Kwaito artiste Mandoza (born Mduduzi Edmund Tshabalala) shook the music scene with his song Nkalakatha and now, a nascent quartet from Bulawayo is on a path to conquer the local music sector in a similar fashion. Singer T-Pain has his signature vocal effect, the T-Pain Effect achieved through the digital processor Auto-Tune, MJ Sings has his Zipop and now, Team Nkalakatha Music is set to introduce a new genre, “Township Afro-Fusion.” Team Nkalakatha Music comprising of KD The Rock (born Keith Dube), Melzee (born Melusi Sibanda), Soft (born Tinashe Chitsaka), and Mthabisi Moyo recently released a Valentine’s Day song titled Istory Yiso Nobuhle and the Team’s founder KD The Rock said, the release was timely as it aligns with Valentine’s Day romantic mood. “Istori Yiso Nobuhle is a song dedicated to a precious lady/woman. Nobuhle means “mother of beauty”, or just “Beauty” or “goodness”. As such, the song narrates one’s love for their ‘Pretty Princess’. February is the month of Love Istori Yiso Nobuhle is a game changer as it is released at the right month to influence all men to show appreciation to their ladies in many aspects. The song aims to make men release a set of emotions and behaviours characterised by intimacy, passion, and commitment.  It motivates men to care, be close to, protect, be affectionate, and trust their only pretty Princesses,” he said.  Team Nkalakatha Music’s vision is to grow and become a global music label whose aim is to continue writing, producing, and releasing music that is genuine, original, and strictly Zimbabwean. Team Nkalakatha Music will strive to produce world-class artistes who can compete with anyone anywhere in the world. Team Nkalakatha does not believe in plagiarising other people’s music or mimicking other artistes or even redoing other artistes’ work. Team Nkalakatha Music has Avumile enjoying rotation on local radio stations and believe their diversity brings something different to the plate. “We pride ourselves in having a creative cohort which complements what we try to achieve with vocalists, instrumentalists, songwriters and sound engineers. Our music is both live and digital and that helps us when performing live so that we create and deliver wholesome music. “Although we are new kids on the block, we thrive to produce good quality music. Our vocalists are tuned to perfection, we do not want to short-change the fans with mediocre productions From writing the song lyrics, planning the beats, arranging, composing songs, recording, and mastering, Team Nkalakatha does due diligence,” said KD The Rock. Team Nkalakatha will be releasing visuals of the song soon. – @MbuleloMpofu