The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter FOLLOWING his losing debut at the attractive Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) in Las Vegas, Navada, United States of America, South Africa-based Zimbabwean cage fighter Themba Gorimbo has vowed to return stronger. Gorimbo registered a second round defeat against America’s Ashton Fletcher last Saturday, leaving the reigning Zimbabwe Sportsperson of the Year with a record of seven wins and four defeats. The Zimbabwean went down having gave a good show in the first round, throwing some good shots at his opponent. After a reversal off his back, Fletcher was able to gain top control and land some hard elbows on Gorimbo in the first round. As Gorimbo went for a take-down early in the frame, Fletcher locked up the guillotine choke and ruined the Zimbabwean’s UFC debut. Disappointed with the defeat at an UFC event that drew between 300 000 to over two million viewers globally based on the pay-per-view buys that the promotion sold, Gorimbo vowed to emerge stronger.  “Taking time out to thank my family, coaches, teammates, friends, clients, sponsors and my manager for all the help to get here. I love you all. “Yes, I failed on this attempt and it really does hurt. I am really disappointed in myself. I know I can do better and will do better. Not sure why but I believe God knows why and I will find out. “I will fix myself and come back a better version of myself to win. “Thank you to @ufc for the platform you have given me. Coming from where I come from to get here is already a huge accomplishment. However, I want to be a champion and I must do myself justice and make things right,” wrote Gorimbo on his Instagram page. Gorimbo, who signed for UFC in August last year after his unanimous decision win against Brazilian Julio Rodrigues in a Fury Fighting Championship in the USA, will get two chances to redeem himself and should he lose three consecutive UFC matches, he will be kicked out. The 32-year old Gorimbo is the second Zimbabwe born fighter after Mike “Blood Diamond” Mathetha to sign up for the UFC. Mathetha is based in New Zealand and trains with the likes of UFC Middleweight champion, Israel Adesanya. He moved to New Zealand at the age of 14. – @ZililoR.