The Chronicle Drink of the week with Peter Matika I was a little under the weather this past week and had no urge to taste anything alcoholic. The thought, sight, smell, or taste were miles away from my musings. I sought medical attention, as I felt dizzy and lightheaded. The medical professionals told me I may had suffered food poisoning – I may have consumed something that had gone bad or expired. So, I was administered a drip and prescribed a bunch of tablets, and given a few days of bed rest. So here I am stuck and bored. I dare to glance at the whiskey bottle stashed in the kitchen. “Let me follow the doctor’s instructions and lay off the alcohol and hydrate myself with water and juices,” I thought to myself.  Mazoe and water… What a boring combination. So, I looked up a non-alcoholic recipe online and found one that was quite fun to make and was quite tasteful on the buds. Since it’s the summer season, the summer cup mocktail just sets you in an exciting and vibrant mood. It’s a fruity mocktail that is endowed with red berries, lemonade, mint, and cucumber. It’s quite an easy drink to make and can be enjoyed by the whole family. It consists of two easy steps: STEP 1 Chop a cucumber and mint sprig/stem into small pieces. Boil at least about 500ml of water in a small pot and then add the mint and cucumber. After that turn off the stove and let the concoction cool for a few minutes. Thereafter add some berries to the mixture. You can either freeze them or then let them defrost before crushing them lightly with a spoon in a cup. Soon after that strain the mixture, and place it in the fridge for a few hours. Step 2 After it has reached a chilling point pour a few millimetres of the strained mixture into a tall glass. Add a handful of ice and top up with some lemonade or sprite. And for the garnish, you can just add whatever chopped fruit you like (I used an apple and orange) or some more frozen berries and mint leaves. Stir gently to combine and enjoy. Sometimes the presentation doesn’t really appear in the manner you want but the drink sure does taste good and is quite healthy. This can be enjoyed even by kids as well. If you have an establishment and think your drink has what it takes to be profiled, send an email to pkmatika@gmail.com or WhatsApp at 0772337433. REMEMBER alcohol is not for sale to persons under the age of 18 and let’s not forget to drink responsibly.