The Chronicle   Senior Business Reporter MULTI-COMMODITY mining and natural resource development company, Premier African Minerals, has further reported encouraging spodumene-rich pegmatite assay results, which cement its decision to commence operations at its Zulu Lithium project in Insiza. The mining firm is targeting production in the first quarter at its Zulu Lithium project, which is being rolled out in Matabeleland South. In a latest update on Monday, chief executive officer, Mr George Roach said: “We continue to see good intersections within the main spodumene-rich pegmatite that are both encouraging for the long term and supportive of our decision to commence operations with the large-scale pilot plant as we have done.” https://youtu.be/7Ir5HXSeNkw He said the results are from boreholes that are located within the area planned to be mined under operation of the Pilot Plant and will constitute a portion of the Mineral Resource update required to support the DFS. Last week, Mr Roach described progress at the mine site as good with delivery of components ongoing on site. He noted key structures, tanks, and associated civils are complete and pipework, electrical, and pneumatic connections are currently being assembled. The main storage dam is at 10 meters and already contains sufficient water for ongoing operations. “Crush, sorting, screening, and milling, with the exception of the secondary crushing circuit, that is expected this week, all major components are installed and ready for power up,” he said last week. On power supply, generators and electrical motor control centres were said to be on route and will be installed immediately on arrival from Johannesburg. Due to the emerging electric motor vehicle industry, there is increased international demand for the lithium mineral known as “white oil” which is used for manufacturing batteries. Despite the ongoing wet season, the mining firm says it still remains on target to produce spodumene in the first quarter.