The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Reporter BULAWAYO Provincial Affairs and Devolution Minister Judith Ncube yesterday launched the Presidential urban Poultry Scheme that will see 20 300 chicks being distributed to 2 030 urban farmers from the city’s 29 wards.
Each ward will have 70 farmers getting 10 birds each. The scheme’s broad objective is to have the country’s annual chicken production leaping to 450 million with an estimated value of US$2,7 billion by 2025. The Presidential Poultry Scheme, targeting three million households from mainly vulnerable groups including women and youth-headed families, comes with the vaccination of the birds by the Department of Veterinary Services to mitigate against diseases. Before the distribution of the chicks yesterday, an Agricultural Rural Development and Advisory Services officer from the Ministry of Lands, Agriculture, Fisheries, Water and Climate, Ms Muchaneta Makwarima explained to the large gathering of excited urban farmers at Southern Petroleum courtyard in Belmont on how they should take care of their birds as well as giving them some home-based treatment methods in the event of sickness. She told farmers that her department will be visiting them at regular intervals to check on the chicks and offer advice. Each of the beneficiaries received 10 chicks as the Second Republic walks the talk on its philosophy of leaving no one and no place behind. Minister Ncube reminded the farmers that the main objective of the scheme is to empower beneficiaries economically hence they should desist from slaughtering the chickens for domestic consumption before realising value from the birds. “This programme was initiated by President Mnangagwa after having realised that there was a need to empower the people. We are therefore here today to witness and launch this programme where each ward will see 70 people receiving 10 chicks each, giving us a total of 700 chicks. We are looking at this programme as a way of empowering the less privileged people, those who can actually be committed and dedicated at seeing that this programme becomes a success as indeed it should be,” said Minister Ncube. Some beneficiaries of the programme couldn’t hide their excitement.  They expressed gratitude to Government for extending the poultry scheme to urbanites saying they had always thought it was only for the rural and peri-urban farmers. In November last year, Minister Ncube distributed 10 000 chicks to 1 000 peri-urban farmers at Mazwi Hall in Ward 17, which was part of the 100 000 chicks targeted for Bulawayo peri-urban and urban farmers. Mrs Theresa Ncube from Nketa 7 said she was over the moon about finally being a recipient of the poultry scheme. “I will make sure that I follow exactly what we were told in terms of looking after these chicks, I know that an investment can go either way but I am committed to making sure I reap positive rewards from the project,” said Mrs Ncube. Mrs Nokwakhe Ndlovu from Ward 20 said she has been economically empowered and hailed President Mnangagwa for being people-centred. “Today I am so excited about getting these chicks. For assured benefits, I will do exactly as what experts told us here because if we do not do that, we may not realise the benefits of this scheme,” said Mrs Ndlovu. A widow who also looks after orphans, Mrs Norina Chinyama said a heavy load has been offloaded from her shoulders. She promised to take good care of the chicks for maximum benefit. Under the National Development Strategy, I (NDS1), the country has set out a comprehensive roadmap anchored on revitalising the agriculture sector. Yesterday’s launch was also attended by, among other officials, the Presidential Poultry Scheme co-ordinator for Bulawayo, Matabeleland North and Matabeleland South provinces Mr Innocent Nezungai, Zanu-PF’s national secretary for business development, Cde Elifasi Mashava and Area Five district coordinating committee chairperson Cde Mnothisi Nsingo.–@skhumoyo2000