The Chronicle   Midlands Bureau A 37-YEAR-OLD Masvingo motorist was allegedly carjacked and robbed of cash and property valued at US$21 050 by three hitchhikers he had offered a lift. Midlands provincial police spokesperson Inspector Emmanuel Mahoko said the incident happened on Tuesday around 8:30 PM at Downlands Business Centre in Lalapanzi along Mvuma-Gweru road. “The Zimbabwe Republic Police confirms a case of robbery in which a 37-year-old man was robbed of a motor vehicle, cash and property valued at US$21 050. The incident occurred on 14 February 2023 around 8:30 PM along Mvuma- Gweru Road near Downlands Business Centre, Lalapanzi,” he said. Insp Mahoko said Stanford Marangwanda of Morgenster Doctors Quarters in Masvingo was driving a Metallic Silver Volvo XC60 vehicle alone from Masvingo going to Gweru. He said Marangwanda allegedly offered transport to three unknown male adults at Croco motors bus stop in Masvingo who pretended to be going to Gweru. “At Downlands Business Centre, Lalapanzi, one of the suspects who was sitting at the back seat ordered Marangwanda to stop the vehicle. The other suspect who was sitting on the front passenger seat produced a knife and pointed it at the complainant,” said Insp Mahoko. He said in fear for his life Marangwanda complied and the robbers tied his hands and legs with a seat belt. Insp Mahoko said the robbers searched his pockets and took a wallet containing US$850. “The suspects drove the vehicle along a dust road and dumped Marangwanda in a bushy area before they sped off in his car. Marangwanda was robbed of an Ipadcell-phone, an I-phone, MacBook Apple laptop, a travelling bag containing blankets and various clothes,” he said. Insp Mahoko said Marangwanda reported the matter to police at Mvuma. “The scene was attended and no arrests or recoveries have been made. We are appealing to members of the public who might have information leading to the arrest of the suspects and recovery of the stolen property to visit any nearest police station,” he said.