The Chronicle  Leeds have sacked Jesse Marsch after their 1-0 defeat by Nottingham Forest on Sunday left the team outside the relegation zone on goal difference. “Leeds United can confirm head coach Jesse Marsch has been relieved of his duties,” the club said on Monday. “Jesse joined the club in February 2022 and was instrumental in keeping the club in the Premier League on the final day of last season. Nottingham Forest striker Brennan Johnson celebrates after scoring against Leeds “We would like to thank Jesse and his backroom staff for their efforts and wish them well for the future. The process of appointing a new head coach is under way and we will continue to keep supporters up to date throughout the coming days.” The West Brom manager, Carlos Corberán, is among the candidates under consideration. Corberán worked at Leeds under Marcelo Bielsa and has transformed West Brom since succeeding Steve Bruce in October. Marsch leaves Elland Road 11 months into a three-year contract, having succeeded Marcelo Bielsa in February. Leeds are 17th in the Premier League, above Everton on goal difference. Three members of his backroom staff – Rene Maric, Cameron Toshack and Pierre Barrieu – will also leave the club. Leeds have not won a league game since 5 November, when they came from 3-1 down to beat Bournemouth 4-3 at home. The board made the decision on Monday and are now working on a replacement. Bielsa recently held talks with Everton but a return to Elland Road is thought to be unlikely. Kick off your evenings with the Guardian’s take on the world of football Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Leeds were 16th when Marsch took over after a slump in form that marked the end of Bielsa’s tenure. They ended last season in 17th place, three points clear of Burnley in 18th, though they required a win at Brentford coupled with Burnley’s defeat to Newcastle to secure survival on the final day. -@The Guardian 