The Chronicle Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS Football Club have finally registered a mining company called Bosso Mining Company Private Limited, as they work towards fully utilising benefits of their gold mine in Inyathi. The Bulawayo football giants are making strides to kick-start the mining project that had long stalled since the team acquired the mining claim. President Mnangagwa awarded Highlanders the claim in 2020 as part of empowering the club to expand their revenue generation streams. The major mine breakthrough came at a time when Highlanders were celebrating 95 years of existence and was a perfect present from the Head of State and Government. The Government, through the Ministry of Mines and Mining Development, approved relevant paperwork for Bosso to start operations at their gold mining claim in December 2020, but lack of funding and failure to lure partners saw the licence expiring.  Highlanders chairman Johnfat Sibanda informed members during last Sunday’s Annual General Meeting that they had formed a committee and also registered a mining company. Sibanda reported that surveying was taking place at the site. “The year 2022 also saw us obtaining the mining special grant/licence. We went on to form a Mining Committee comprising of some board and executive members, the chief executive officer and some members of the club with specialised skills in mining. “The members of the committee are Methuseli Mafu, Busani Mthombeni, Ronald Moyo, Vulindlela Bongani Sibanda, Kenneth Mhlophe, Gideon Ncube, Mazibuko Tshabile. Through this committee we managed to register a mining company called Bosso Mining Company, (PVT) Ltd. Surveying is currently in progress,” said club chairman Johnfat Sibanda. This publication has it on good authority that a number of potential partners have demanded a bankable geological report before investing on the Bosso mining venture. Highlanders are said to have lost an undisclosed amount of money in the past by engaging geologists who only confirmed that the place had gold but didn’t provide details of where the reserves, rifts and ore can be found.