The Chronicle IN some homes and nations dictators rule the roost. People coming from these environments do not like laws because they are tired of them. They don’t like to be under any law or else they rebel. Their language is, “why did he say don’t, there must be something in it for me,” and they are critical and over analytical. Something in their bloodline loves to break laws. If you are married to a man who is in a 60km/hour zone and he is driving at the speed of 120km/hour, this man will always be in trouble with the police. He can even steal and is not afraid of the law or curses. There are Christians who, no matter how much you preach about curses, are not afraid of them. They think that good things are hidden under threats or rules. If you say you will be cursed, to them it is an empty threat from the man of God just so that they don’t venture into that area. Anger: Angry people are frustrated and this spirit comes with poverty. If you hear people saying “I am a maDube, I fight a lot”, know that the Dube clan has serious emotional problems. Such people have had their spirits broken when they were young. Anger can make you destroy things that you have worked for for many years. It opens doorways for poverty to come into your life. You can even be involved in a car accident that kills your entire family, all because you failed to deal with anger. Many people have taken guns and shot themselves and their families because of anger. The spirit of anger allows poverty to begin ravage you. It starts to attack your business and everything you touch.  Anger has self-destructive power. This spirit destroys people without them knowing it because it is a demon. If you have a spirit of anger you are in danger of poverty. It is dangerous, deal with these emotions because they can destroy you Gossip: Gossiping is a sign of failure, in life. People that gossip feel better about themselves by spreading stories about people which are mostly lies. They gossip because that is the only thing that gives them comfort and protection in knowing that other people also have bad moments and bad times. God Bless. eaglelifeassembly@yahoo.com