The Chronicle Proverbs 10:22 The blessing of the LORD, it maketh rich, and he addeth no sorrow with it. (KJV) AN 1828 Webster’s Dictionary defined the blessing as ‘an empowerment or ability to do what someone could not do before; a solemn prophetic benediction in which happiness is desired, invoked or foretold; a prayer imploring happiness upon another.’ According to the Casey’s dictionary the word blessing means declaration, invocation, and bestowal of divine favor, grace and a gift of God, nature of God. To have a blessing upon your life means to have an impartation of supernatural favor. A blessing is experiencing an open heaven physically, spiritually, materially, mentally, socially, financially and emotionally. It is without measure, so great, indescribable, unreachable, overflowing, abundant and not confinable.  This is a type of blessing that you cannot have from your own strength and power but through the Spirit of God. A blessing is a supernatural and divine visitation that must be desired by believers and accessed through their actions of obedience to God’s laws without measure. If you do not obey God’s laws, it is just a sign that you have a very poor revelation of what a blessing is. A person who has a clear understanding of what a blessing is will follow: Joshua 1:8 This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth; but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein: for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. (KJV) I love this scripture because it is a blessing connector. So I encourage you to go for it and put it into practice and see if God lies. God’s blessing is wonderful and unlimited goodness that only He has the power to know about and give to us. This is a blessing that has no sorrow or pain added to it. You will be throwing yourself entirely into the river of His will, great power and purpose. You will be absorbed and overwhelmed by Him under, above, around and all over you with His grace. Your life will be marked by miracles. Believers must understand that Gods will is to bless us, He loves to bless us. His nature is to bless whilst the devil’s nature is to curse. Jesus came to give us an abundant life. God Bless. — eaglelifeassembly@yahoo.com