The Chronicle Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter CAPS United have signed midfielder Kelvin Madzongwe on a two-year deal after the player ditched the financially troubled Bulawayo Chiefs. Instead of the capture of the player being the talk of the town, it was the unveiling ceremony that drew loads of criticism as it was way below the standards of a team as big as Caps United. In an era where player unveilings have become a huge deal, Makepekepe decided to take a regular image with the player standing with club president Farai Jere and coach Lloyd Chitembwe which was met with ridicule on social media. Madzongwe becomes the latest Bulawayo Chiefs player to leave Amakhosi Amahle after the trio of Moyo twins Elvis and Kevin as well as attacking midfielder Arthur Musiyiwa who signed for Dynamos, goalkeeper David Bizabani now with Green Fuel and forward Perfect Chikwende who made a return to FC Platinum.  What makes it interesting is that Madzongwe, who also played for Bulawayo City and FC Platinum  left Chiefs, who struggled to pay salaries last season and joins Makepekepe who had a similar problem last season. Caps United had a tough time in paying salaries for players last season as the club almost failed to fulfill a number of fixtures. Players boycotted training sessions regularly, and, at some point, the club had to fire some senior players who were fingered as the ring leaders of the infamous player revolt ahead of United’s 2-0 loss to Cranborne Bullets. Clive Augusto, Ronald Chitiyo, Dennis Dauda, Rodwell Chinyengetere and Chafa were shown the door, but Chinyengetere and Chafa were later forgiven. Makepekepe eventually finished 11th, five points above the relegation zone. So far the Green Machine have romped in former Dynamos star Godknows Murwira, Innocent Zambezi and Admiral Matope with Highlanders midfielder Adrian Silla also headed for green part of the capital city. Former Dynamos and Ngezi Platinum Stars winger Tichaona Mabvura is also training with Makepekepe, hoping to impress Chitembwe and his technical team. -@innocentskizoe