The Chronicle Brandon Moyo, Sports Reporter TUSKERS will be hoping to save their 2022/23 domestic Twenty20 competition when they go up against Lions in their fourth match of the campaign today at Harare Sports Club. After losing two consecutive matches, the Bulawayo side will be fancying their chances against a Lions side that is yet to win a game having lost all the three matches they have played. The game will be the only one played at that venue today. Chances of reaching the final appear to be hanging by the thread for Walter Chawaguta and his men and will be, however, hoping for a strong finish that could take them to the playoff match of the prestigious 20 over competition. In their last match, Tuskers lost by 21 runs against Southern Rocks after being asked to chase a target of over 200 runs for the second consecutive match. Rocks made 206/4 in 20 overs before Tuskers could only manage 185/6 in their 20 overs to make it one win and two losses in three matches. In the other match, Rhinos posted 200/6 in 20 overs after being sent in to bat and Tuskers could only manage 164/5 in 20 overs, which was their first defeat of the season after they opened their account on a positive note with an eight wickets win over Eagles. Tuskers will be hoping their bowlers do not concede more than 200 runs for the third time against a limping Lions side.  In other matches that will be played today, Eagles clash with Rhinos while Rocks will go against Mega Market Mountaineers. Tuskers are sitting in position five with four points while Lions at the bottom of the table have zero points. In other news, Zimbabwe’s women’s domestic season is set to get underway with back-to-back inter-provincial T20 and 50-over fixtures scheduled for this weekend in Kwekwe. Today will see two Women’s T20 Cup matches pitting Eagles against Tuskers and Rhinos Women versus Mega Market Mountaineers being played at Goldridge College and Kwekwe Sports Club respectively. Tomorrow, the same sides will meet in the one-day competition, the Fifty50 Challenge at the same venues. Eagles are the holders of both trophies after achieving a clean sweep last season. Meanwhile, the Bulawayo Metropolitan Cricket Association First League is set to return to action this week with two matches taking place. Bulawayo Athletic Club go up against Nketa Cricket Club BAC on Saturday before Amakhosi Cricket Club and Queens Sports Club face off on Sunday at the same venue. In the Second League, National University of Science and Technology play against Queens Sports Club at Academy Cricket ground, former Heath Streak Academy while Gampu Lions will face Roosters at Emakhandeni Cricket Club. On Sunday, Wholesale Beef Bulls will be up against Champions at the Academy of Cricket Excellence (formerly Heath Streak Academy) and BAC while Zimbabwe Republic Police will square off at Emakhandeni Cricket Club. ­­— @brandon_malvin