The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter AN 18-year-old Mosi-oa-Tunya High School pupil has become the marvel of Victoria Falls after attaining 5As and 6Bs, emerging as the best Ordinary Level candidate at her school. Shearize Francine Phiri’s story is inspiring as at some point, her parents struggled with her school fees until a teacher who had seen her potential, linked her up with a well-wisher. Shearize’s school fees has been paid by the Rotary Club of Victoria Falls since she was in primary school. She got A* in Combined Science, Mathematics, Geography, Biology and History, while Bs are in English language, Computer Science, Physics, Chemistry, Principles of Accounting and IsiNdebele. Compared to others countrywide, Shearize’s passes may be viewed as very average, but education authorities said they could be the highest in Victora Falls, making her unique. A full assessment of the 2022 Ordinary Level results in the city could not be immediately made available. Shearize said hard work driven by the need to transform her poor lifestyle pushes her on. She has enrolled for Lower 6 at the same school and is doing Mathematics, Biology, and Chemistry as her goal is to become a biochemical engineer. “I think what gave me those passes is working hard and smart. I’m a very ambitious and passionate girl who has a fighting spirit and a never give up attitude,” said Shearize.  “Furthermore, looking at the life that I am leading, things are not easy so I try by all means to set a different mark and be unique. As I was doing my O-Level, I used to tell myself that I know where I come from, what I go through and my family background. So I told myself that I  shouldn’t be at school only to please other learners but to grab every opportunity by focusing on my goal.” Shearize said she knew that opportunity sometimes knocks once in life and still does not want to jeopardise the chance of going to school. She is the first born in a family of two girls and her sibling, Brunette, learns at Chamabondo Primary School, the same school where Shearize did her primary education. Shearize was born on 10 July 2005 and her parents are Mr Thabani Wadibirani Phiri who is based in South Africa and Ms Moreblessing Sibanda. The girl is being raised by her stepfather, Mr Philemon Munsaka, who she chooses to call her supporting father. Mr Munsaka works at a local lodge. She said she faced some form of stigma from some members of the community and because she is always goal oriented and passionate, she managed to do what was perceived to be impossible. “Some always thought it was impossible for a girl child and a mere student from Mosi to make it in life so I feel great and blessed to be the best student at Mosi-oa-Tunya High School and the whole of Victoria Falls. “This achievement keeps me going as a girl child and I tell myself that everything is possible as long as one works hard,” she said. Shearize said at some point, she sought permission from the school head Mr Roland Sibanda to study at the school at 4am before classes start at 7am and she was granted but some started discouraging her saying she was wasting her time. She soldiered on despite the negativity. Shearize said life is not about impressing people and one should not rely on people to define him or her. “If I had chosen to listen to people I wouldn’t be where I am right now and so I feel so proud of myself as a girl child,” said Shearize. She is grateful to the Rotary Club which she was introduced to by her former primary school teacher, Mr Ganyapfu after she became overall best pupil at Chamabondo. Her parents were unemployed then and struggled to pay fees for her. — @ncubeleon