The Chronicle 1 Kings 3:4-5 Now the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, for that was the great high place: Solomon offered a thousand burnt offerings on that altar. At Gibeon the LORD appeared to Solomon in a dream by night; and God said, “Ask! What shall I give you?”(NKJV) 2 Chronicles 1:6 And Solomon went up there to the bronze altar before the LORD, which was at the tabernacle of meeting, and offered a thousand burnt offerings on it. (NKJV) When Solomon sacrificed a thousand bulls unto the Lord, the Lord visited him and pronounced a wonderful blessing upon his life. If you really want divine visitations in your life, give unto God sacrificially. If you want to prosper you have to study from Genesis to Revelations and learn the principles of a thousand offerings.  Deuteronomy 1:11 (The LORD God of your fathers make you a thousand times so many more as ye [are], and bless you, as he hath promised you!) (KJV) God multiplies at a thousand when He is blessing His people. The back bone of poverty is broken at a thousand. Many people are in poverty or bondage because they do not want to sacrifice something, they just want to receive. Numbers 31:4-5 Of every tribe a thousand, throughout all the tribes of Israel, shall ye send to the war. So there were delivered out of the thousands of Israel, a thousand of [every] tribe, twelve thousand armed for war. (KJV) Deuteronomy 32:30
How should one chase a thousand, and two put ten thousand to flight, except their Rock had sold them, and the LORD had shut them up? (KJV) Joshua 23:10 One man of you shall chase a thousand: for the LORD your God, he [it is] that fighteth for you, as he hath promised you. (KJV). When you need big breakthroughs, or whenever you feel that you want kingly anointing, you activate that anointing by entering into the realm of sowing in thousands. When you sacrifice in thousands, God Himself begins to visit you whether in angelic form or in dreams and you begin to operate in wisdom and kingly dimensions and power. (Read 2 Kings 15:19) At a 1000 offering, you confirm your hold on power.
God Bless … eaglelifeassembly@yahoo.com